Opeyemi Oshoko | Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode on Monday paid a courtesy visit to the Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Usman Oyibe Jibrin, harping on the need for the Navy to assist the state in the fight against crime. The governor who spoke at the Defence Headquarters, Abuja expressed his displeasure at the unfortunate and current spate of robberies in Lagos State within a week into his administration, which informed his urgent audience with the Chief of Naval Staff. In a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Habib Aruna, the Governor said Lagos being the foremost commercial hub of the country is strategic and cannot be a breeding ground for criminals. It would be recalled that bandits struck at two different financial institutions within Ikorodu community last Wednesday and carted away undisclosed amount of money before fleeing via the waterways. According to the Governor, his administration has resolved to evolve strategies that will frontally confront the insecurity through collaborative efforts of the State government, the private sector and security Agencies, lamenting the increase in armed robbery. He praised the efforts of the Nigerian Navy in tackling criminal activities in parts of the state. In his response, the Chief of the Staff, Vice Admiral Usman Jibrin, who was flanked by other senior officers of the Nigeria Navy, congratulated the Governor on his election and inauguration. Continuing, the CNS said, Lagos State being the major operational hub of the Nigerian Navy as a coastal state with vast maritime potentials cannot be allowed to be a haven for criminals. The Naval boss said there is the need for combined use of the security forces on air, waters and on the ground for effective control of crimes in the state. He thanked the State Government for the harmonious working relationship with the Nigerian Navy in its quest to secure the state for economic prosperity and promised that the service would assist the state government in any capacity necessary to ensure adequate security of lives and properties in the state. “I can assure you that I will support you with manpower which is already on ground”, he said.