 The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) candidate in the recently held governorship election in Abia State, Dr. Alex Otti, has said that the state does not belong to former Governor T.A Orji, while describing the immediate past governor as an inconsistent fellow who takes positions on issues arbitrarily. The APGA candidate’s remarks comes in the wake of recent claims by Orji that he (Otti) was an intruder who wanted to take the governorship slot that was zoned to the Abia South Senatorial Zone by deceit. “T.A. Orji is an inconsistent fellow. Initially he talked of Ukwa-Ngwa; then in order to stop Senator Nwogu and I, he changed to Abia South. He marginalized Ukwa-Ngwa during his tenure and is now installing his puppet. Abia does not belong to him,” Otti stated. He went on to accuse the ex-governor of manipulating the governorship election which produced the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and current Governor of the state, Okezie Ikpeazu. “He even marginalized his own people, the Ibeku people, so they voted against him. In 14 out of the 17 local government areas, APGA led by 60 percent, then they wrote the results of three local governments and brought it to Umuahia but the returning officer cancelled them. “In a decent society, a governor should have no business in a collation centre, but he barged into the collation centre and intimidated them to reverse the cancellation. “His accusation is a misplaced comment which clearly reveals the nature of his mind. His mind is warped; he polluted the state with touts, miscreants, and kidnappers. The people he appointed as transition committee chairmen for eight years are touts and layabouts. So maybe he is right; I intruded to restore sanity in the state and rescue it from gangsterism “I came to salvage Abia which Orji and his cohorts mismanaged. That is why the people voted us but he and his cohorts thwarted it. T.A. Orji does not support Ukwa-Ngwa heartily; he wants someone who will protect him,” he explained. The APGA candidate further explained that he had filed a suit at the election petition tribunal sitting in the state and expressed confidence in the ability of the judges to deliver the right judgment.