LUKMAN OLOGUNRO | Former Super Eagles Captain, Sunday Oliseh, has said Nigeria may yet again miss out of qualification for the next edition of the African Nations Cup.
Writing on his personal blog sundayoliseh.tv, the former Ajax and Juventus midfielder said ongoing events between the Nigeria Football Federation and Stephen Keshi as well as goalkeeper Viincent Enyeama may have a crippling effect on the team’s chances of making to the tournament billed for Gabon in 2017.
The Super Eagles were unable to qualify for the last edition held in Equatorial Guinea and Oliseh believes that the disturbing events will have to be addressed with urgency warning if not, Nigeria may once again fail to book a ticket at the biennial event.
“Let Nigeria leave side issues and player character attacks aside and face pure football issues. Otherwise we might not be at the next Nations cup again as participants but mere spectators!” he wrote.
Oliseh, a member of the famous Atlanta ’96 Olympic  gold-medal winning outing  faulted how the NFF is itching to nail Enyeama for his “uncomplimentary remarks” about the choice of Kaduna for the AFCON qualifying match against Chad.
“The current much ado about nothing on Vincent Enyeama’s comments disagreeing with the decision to play an African Nations cup qualifier in Kaduna is taking a direction now which, we may once again regret as a Nation,” Oliseh stated.
“Let’s remind ourselves that this particular game vs Chad was won by Nigeria 2-0 and keeps Nigeria on track to Nations Cup 2017.
“Nigeria is returning back from a painful setback situation of missing out on the Nations cup 2015 and barely has the qualifiers started for the next one and an opinion of its Captain is the latest thing to pounce upon to discredit another loyal servant in Vincent Enyeama with what hidden agenda this time?
Nigeria currently place second with three points in their group same with Egypt who have a better goal difference. The Super Eagles will face Tanzania in the next qualification