 The immediate past Special Adviser on Education to former Lagos State Governor, Mr Babatunde Raji Fashola and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos, Hon. Abdulfatai Olukoga, has said that the influence of the national leader of the party, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, cannot be undermined by the group loyal to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. He stated that the labour of Tinubu for the success of the party should not be allowed to go in vein. The former special adviser, who said this in an exclusive interview with Hallmark, explained that there is need for the party to instil discipline among its rank and file, stating that the outcome of the National Assembly leadership election was a palace coup against the South West and Tinubu. Olukoga stated that the crisis going on in the party would not derail the party and President Muhammadu Buhari from delivering on the promises to the citizens, stressing that the APC led administration will provide the needed social services to the people. “What is really happening at the National Assembly shows that the party needs to instil discipline among the rank and file of the party. Let me tell you that in short what happened during the National Assembly leadership election was a palace coup against the South West targeted to undermine Tinubu. Tinubu is too important to be toyed with. If the party gives directive, as a loyal party member you have to stand by the directive. “APC will not derail like the PDP because of the crisis and even President Buhari would deliver the promises made to the citizenry during campaign. Our party will provide the necessary social services to the people. We will deliver on our mandate”, said Olukoga Enunciating his achievement as special adviser, Olukoga stated that it was during his time that most of the tertiary institutions in the state were accredited, adding that he made it mandatory for all tertiary institutions’ administrators to ensure that all graduands get their certificates on the day of their convocation.