  OKUNADE ADEKUNLE Two domestic staff of the late former vice-chancellor of Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State, Prof. Albert Ilemobade, yesterday, narrated how they allegedly strangled their boss to death. The suspects, who were the deceased’s security guard/gateman, Daniel Ita from Cross Rivers State and driver, Olayemi Bamitale, from Ekiti State, were paraded by men of the Ondo State police command in Akure. The duo were arrested by men of the Ogun State police command before they were transferred to Ondo State. His family members and members of the Archbishop Vining College of Theology, Akure, besieged the police headquarters. They were at the police headquarters to catch a glimpse of the two suspected murderers who killed the 78-year-old man. It was earlier reported that unknown gunmen abducted the septuagenarian last Sunday before his decomposed body was found in an isolated store in his house. Bamitale, a 36-year-old man, was reportedly sacked by the late Ilemobade before the Easter celebration in April when he allegedly took away for four days, a Toyota RAV4 Jeep, belonging to the university don. He later returned the car when he could not get a buyer for it. The suspect was reportedly detained in police net before sympathizers appealed to the deceased to allow his bail. Despite Bamitala’s sack by his employer, the suspect maintained contact with the deceased’s security guard on how they will steal the car again. Bamitale, who spoke with reporters, said the late vice chancellor was very nice to him and Ita. He said Ita contacted him one day and told him that he had contacted his herbalist on how to steal the car without leading to any trouble. “After he told me about his herbalist on phone, Ita asked me to come to the house at Ijapo Estate on Sunday by 9p.m. When I got to the place, he told me that he had met his herbalist who told him that if we want to take that car, we must ensure we killed baba and that he must take away some sand from that house so that there won’t be any problem after we might have killed him. “When I asked him that how are we going to call the Prof. who is already sleeping outside, Ita said he would lure baba to the security room that there is a power surge and from there we will strangle him to death. And from there we will be able to come into his room and take whatever we want since mama, who is the wife of the deceased, is in another room and she won’t hear any sound.” But Ita denied that he was the architect of the killing, blaming Bamitale for luring him to the “evil” business.