 The presidency has said that cleaning the mess left behind by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), especially the immediate past administration, requires scrupulous and painstaking planning. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, said this in a statement made available to journalists in Abuja yesterday.  Adesina was reacting to a statement by the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Chief Olisa Metuh, in which he described the last 30 days under President Muhammadu Buhari as a period of all motion and no movement. The presidential spokesman said across all sectors, national life was devalued under the PDP and it would take meticulousness and sure-footedness to repair all the breaches. “The Buhari administration is naturally contemplative because there was absolutely no rhyme or reason to the way PDP ran the country, particularly in the immediate past dispensation.  “That is why the Aegean stable is being cleaned now, and it requires scrupulous and painstaking planning. “Across all sectors, our national life was devalued, and it takes meticulousness and sure-footedness to repair all the breaches. This, the Buhari administration will deliver.” He described the PDP’s 30 days appraisal of the Buhari administration as amusing. Adesina said while the party wanted Nigerians to join hands in prayers for the government so that things would begin to move, it did not know that Nigerians had long formed such coalition. He said Nigerians were hand in hand, and that was what gave victory to Buhari in the March 28, 2015 poll.  He said they had teamed up to uproot an administration that had brought the country to her knees, and was about to tip her off the precipice, adding that they also resolved that never would they allow any government to divide them along regional, religious and ethnic fault lines again. The presidential spokesman also described as “déjà vu,” a situation where Metuh claimed that people around the president were conniving with bureaucrats to syphon money from the treasury. He said such situation was the pastime of the immediate past administration. He added that the enormity of the sleaze will be evident when stolen money, to the tune of billions of dollars, is recovered, and returned to the national treasury soon.