 Meanwhile, Chief Onyeka, who is also the Chief Executive officer of Nkosiwe Travel Agency hinted treatment, will be administered on participants in all kinds of ailment including breast cancer, HIV & AIDS, child mortality amongst others. He said, “we will be on ground to attend and treat all kind of ailment and give lectures to people in areas like breast cancer awareness, HIV & AIDS, child birth mortality.” He noted that 10 villages would be visited on different days including Oko, Abagana, Ozumbulu and others. According to Onyeka, to achieve this the umbrella body governing all Anambra Indigenes in diasporas, otherwise known as ASA-WORLD is already in collaboration with over  27  health organizations worldwide. “All Anambra indigenes from across the globe, over 27 member organizations are working in concert with Global Healthcare Foundation, Med Point Management, Stevenson Orthopedic Medical clinic and other Stakeholders who believe that anyone living in Anambra with medical need, should have access to free and affordable medical treatment.” Explaining further, he said the medical mission will take place in Anambra State between 6th to 16th July 2015, during which about ten towns will be visited, amongst is Ozubulu on the 10th of July at  Uruokwe Central School Egbema Ozubulu. “Hence this is an annual visit, same or different towns will be visited in years ahead, depending on who pays their sponsorship money. We are doing it to save lives of the impoverished people of Anambra State/Nigeria and to contribute in the capacity building relevant to the growth and sustainable development of Anambra State. Some of the towns to be visited, Chief Onyeka informed include: Oko – July 6, 2015, Abagana -July 7, 2015, Obosi – July 8, 2015, Ihembosi – July 9, 2015 and Ozubulu – July 10, 2015 The VP added “We will be on ground to attend and treat all kind of ailment and give lectures to people in areas like breast cancer awareness, HIV & AIDS, child birth mortality amongst others. We are pleased to announce that an overwhelming number of  Clinicians, physicians, pharmacists, Nurses, Dentists, Optometrists, Opticians, Specialists in all medical fields and Social workers; professionals have agreed to participate on this mission . Medical professionals; from almost all chapters of ASA-World; from Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Japan, Dubai, South Africa etc have declared interest in joining this Mission. “With strong clarity of purpose and sole agenda of working together with all stakeholders, government and non-government organization in meeting the needs of our people in our home state. We are merely putting out calls for donations, Professionals and Volunteers from all walks of lives. Anambrarians and non-Anambra volunteers in seeing to the success of this mission”. “ASA-WORLD will be embarking on a medical mission to Anambra State from July 6, 2015-July 16, 2015.  All Anambra indigenes from across the globe, over 27 member organizations are working in concert with Global Healthcare Foundation, Med Point Management, Stevenson Orthopedic Medical clinic and other Stakeholders who believe that anyone living in Anambra and surrounds with medical need, should have access to free and or affordable medical treatment are the driving force behind this Mission”, Onyeka said. He however, appealed to Anambrarians to check out for the nearest venue and date so that they can appear and be treated of any ailment that is disturbing them.