 By UCHE AKOLISA With only 32.5 percent of Nigeria’s population of 170 million operating a bank account, the cashless economy currently being promoted by the Central Bank of Nigeria has created new opportunities to tap into the largely unbanked population for e-payment platforms that are primed to seize the time. For a leading e-payment platform like MasterCard, the appreciation that the power of choice lies with consumers who are end-users of e-payment cards provides the launch pad to winning them to the brand’s side. So, the brand creates campaigns that resonate with cardholders while reinforcing their loyalty to the brand to build emotional bond. One of these campaigns is the ‘Priceless’ surprises campaign. The Priceless campaign was activated in Nigeria in 2013 gives the cardholder opportunity of unforgettable experiences most likely to stay with the consumer for the rest of his life such as tickets to the most coveted events or cities and each year takes a different form. This year, the focus was on families and especially children who were targeted with the MasterCard Goal Celebration Contest. Two Nigerian children, Abba Ahmed and Jordan Uba, who emerged winners of the MasterCard Goal Celebration Contest  just returned from Berlin where they featured as  official player mascots for the UEFA Champions League Final in Berlin as part of a MasterCard Priceless Experience campaign. The two football- loving children who won an all-expense paid trip with their families to watch the UEFA Champions League Final told journalists on their return to Nigeria after the experience said that the memories would stay with them for life. Abba and Jordan who escorted star players from FC Barcelona and Juventus from the tunnel and onto the pitch at UEFA Finals said that they had the privilege of meeting world superstars. “It was a very beautiful experience, a dream come true. Not only did Messi shake me, he hugged me,” gushed Jordan, beaming with smiles. “I will never forget it. The moment I entered the Berlin gate, I felt free. I made new friends. Jordan is now my best friend,” revealed Abba. The two boys who aspire to be footballers won the  MasterCard Goal Celebration contest launched on the social media some months ago where children aged 9 to 11 were expected to upload videos of them celebrating a goal. Vice President and Area Business Head, MasterCard, West Africa, Omokehinde Ojomuyide, said that the intention of the Priceless Experience campaign was to give users of the leading e-payment platform an unforgettable experience. “It is about creating unforgettable experience with things we have access to like music, football and fashion.” On the impact the experience had on the children, she said that every child should be made to understand that they can be whoever they want to be.