By Ezugwu Obinna | One time governorship aspirant under the platform of the All Progressive Grand Alliance, Chief Robert Okechukwu Okoroji has told Igbo leaders that they must as a matter of necessity think in the direction of developing their region which according to him has been dangerously neglected over the years. Okoroji who made the call in a chat with Hallmark lamented that the inability of the Igbo to develop the Southeast was responsible for the hate they are being subjected to in other parts of the country especially in Lagos State which has witnessed anti Igbo campaigns in recent weeks. “The East has been neglected over the years especially in the areas of Industries and Information Technology. If you go to Aba or Onitsha for instance, our brothers there know little or nothing about ICTs which are the key drivers of the modern economic and technology world.” “We the Igbo must realize that we must carefully and strategically develop our region; it is very important. The reason they threaten us in Lagos is that they feel we are desperate to stay here. So the Igbo must as a matter of fact strategically think about developing their place,” he said. Reacting to the reports making the round on social media that a group of youths under the aegis of Oodua Nationalist Coalition (ONAC) and the Pan- Yoruba National Alliance (PAYNA) staged a protest march against the Igbo at the gate of Emzor pharmaceutical company outlet in Asawani Road, Isolo Lagos, Okoroji opined that the said youths were disgruntled individuals who were out to intimidate non Yoruba in Lagos. He wondered why some people are trying to create division among people that have coexisted for over a hundred years. “Their actions are geared towards intimidating the Igbo and other ethnic groups in Lagos; the campaign has been ongoing on social media. Their aim is to make the Igbo feel they do not belong, but such should be resisted.” “The constitution of Nigeria provides that a citizen of this country has a right to live and carry out whatever legal activities he wishes to for his survival. The Igbo have lived here for up to 110 years. There are Yoruba who live and own businesses in other places as well. Even outside the country, in London they are many and no one is fighting them.” “As we speak, a Yoruba man, Rotimi Adebayo is the governor of a province in Ireland; another is a member of parliament in Poland. There are many others like that,” he noted. 