 By EMMA OKEREH, Abuja Indications emerged yesterday that a faction within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is now devising plans to undermine the government of President Muhammadu Buhari, following what some sources described as his roles in the National Assembly leadership crisis. Hallmark reliably gathered that a faction of the party which lost out during the polls to elect National Assembly principal officers might be plotting a fresh strategy on how to pocket the APC hierarchy and Buhari’s government eventually, while the ANPP, CPC and New PDP elements in the APC, who form the core of the Buhari’s group, are busy plotting counter strategies. The group led by the APC National Leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is said to be angry at the president’s role in the National Assembly debacle and his reluctance to take them along in forming the new government. The group claimed that the president worked in tandem with those who defied party position and went ahead to elect Senator Bukola Saraki as Senate President, at a time 51 senators and key members of the APC caucus were being kept in suspense, waiting for President Buhari to address them at a meeting. A source close to the group said that its members have resolved to take hard stance against some policies and actions of the government, as a means of jolting President Buhari to take them more seriously. Meanwhile, former vice president and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Atiku Abubakar, has said that it is dangerous for any individual or group in the ranks of the ruling party to constitute themselves into an opposition even before the constitution and take-off of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. The former vice president made the call against the backdrop of developments in the polity, which he notes are interplay of forces and interests that are dynamic, but must not be promoted to the point of being a threat to the country’s democracy and the new administration. In a statement released by his media office in Abuja, yesterday, and signed by Mazi Paul Ibe, the Turaki Adamawa while acknowledging that it is legitimate and desirable for individuals or groups to seek to pursue their interest, it must be done with the benefit of sustaining the country’s democracy and promoting equity, fair play and justice in mind. “Anything to the contrary may jeopardise our hard-earned democracy and constitute a clog in the wheel of the new administration,” Atiku said. He noted that because of the historic nature of the mandate of President Muhammadu Buhari and the arduous challenges ahead to deliver on making Nigeria work for all Nigerians, it is important, especially for members of his own party, to rally behind him in the quest to enthrone good governance, that will spur security and stability, economic and social development, job creation, infrastructure renewal and above all a better life for Nigerians. The former vice president urged members of the APC to emulate the unity of all the presidential contestants after the party’s Lagos primaries and support the president to form his government and get to work. The statement exonerated AtikuAbubakar of the purported hijack of the party and the National Assembly towards 2019 as figment of the imagination of those promoting it and asked Nigerians to ignore all such insinuation. He notes that the recent outcomes of the National Assembly election contrary to insinuations are products of interplay of politics which is itself in constant motion. “In politics, it is a mistake to expect fixed outcomes. As the president has done, let’s all come to terms with what has happened in the interest of the system and move on. “Suffice it to say that the new administration should be allowed a smooth take-off and be allowed the atmosphere to deliver. On this, I stand with President Buhari,” Atiku said. The Turaki Adamawa while restating his unalloyed commitment to the Buhari administration pledged to back this commitment with all of the assets at his disposal. “Not only did AtikuAbubakar congratulate Buhari after his emergence as the presidential candidate of the APC at the party’s national convention in Lagos, he also handed over his best assets to the Buhari Presidential Campaign. The former vice president enthusiastically handled the diplomatic assignment of seeking endorsement for Dr.Adesina as the president of the African Development Bank on behalf of President Buhari and would be available for any other assignments as the president pleases. “Make no mistake about it AtikuAbubakar holds Buhari in the highest esteem, and would always remain loyal to him, and support him in every endeavour to succeed as president.” The APC chieftain also called on Nigerians with members of the president’s own party taking a lead in their undiluted support of his administration. “We, the members of the president’s own family, need to lead in this direction for others to follow for the good of our nation and its peoples.” AtikuAbubakar denounced the increasing determination of some people to draw a wedge between President Buhari and himself. “It has become crystal clear even to the blind that the motives of these hatchet men who are desperate to take every available newspaper space is to insult, vilify and calumniate the former vice president. “We cannot allow liars, denigrators and blackmailers and their sponsors to use Atiku as platform to ingratiate themselves with President Buhari and hijack his presidency under the pretext of loving him more than anyone else. These political ventriloquists are hiding behind the cover of anonymity to achieve their sinister agenda of making Atiku the fall guy in the unfolding political developments.”