 Olusesan Laoye | A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Lekan Balogun as said that the leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu should not in any way lord himself over others at the expense of the overall interests of the entire country. Senator Balogun who is also a High Chief of Ibadan Land, in an exclusive interview with the Hallmark in Ibadan argued that, it was not proper for anybody to want to dictate to others Balogun who was asked to react to the insinuation that the emergence of Senator Bukola Saraki and Dogara was meant to cut the wings of Bola Tinubu, argued ‘’ the role you play should be determined by the wishes of the people. You should not lord yourself over the people. If what they are saying is what is happening, I think it is wrong. He should wait for democracy to take its process and to get the process to assign roles for people. He should not skim to lord himself over anybody. In a way what happened in the National assembly is a good development to check that tendency, if truly he has that tendency’’. Senator Balogun further pointed out that the process that produced Saraki and Dogara was transparent enough because it was done on the floors of the two chambers, saying that both national assembly leaders are Nigerians and   member of the Senate and the House of Representative and not people from outside the National assembly. He argued that it was wrong for some people to stay in one corner to dictate what should happen in the National assembly, saying that he was once a senator and the procedure was for the leaders to be elected on the floor of the house which was what happened. He said he was shocked to hear that the leaders of the APC said they were shocked about the emergence of Saraki. “Why should they be shocked that is why I said that Nigerian politicians do things for their selfish interests and not for the global interests of Nigerians’’ On what he feels about the PDP which has been in control of the South west now has only two states and one of it  was by proxy, Senator Balogun said ‘’Well I don’t feel too good and I don’t have political aspirations for myself anymore. I am like everybody’s father now. The situation is not good for the PDP. Leaders of the party must put their heads together and do what they can, to reverse the situation. The way democracy works and with the law of dialectics, events would solve themselves out with time. He further said On whether the situation in the National assembly was a pointer to the fact that the South West was heading towards being maginalised again, he said nobody knew that Bukola Saraki would emerge as the Senate President but he has emerged. ‘’There would be a lot of more surprises to come. We have to be fair in sharing the positions in the country. Dialectics like I said befor, is a law that takes care of things like that, I don’t want to bother myself about it.  I don’t have the slightest fear that South West could be marginalized.”