 Three years after successfully acquiring Intercontinental Bank, resurgent Access Bank has continued on the path of innovation to reposition the lender to achieve its targets. The bank, which is now one of the largest lenders in Nigeria by all relevant  indicators, is staging one of the biggest polo shows in the United Kingdom on Saturday June 13, 2015. ”As part of its continued support of UNICEF, Access Bank Group, along with 5th Chukker, The Access Bank UK and Access Private Bank is hosting the ‘Access Bank Polo Day’ at the Guards Polo Club, Windsor on Saturday June 13,” said the bank. The bank explained that the sponsorship provides a platform for supporting orphaned and vulnerable children in Nigeria. Access Bank Plc and Fifth Chukker raise funds for UNICEF through the high-profile Access Bank Charity Shield polo matches in Nigeria. According to its Group Managing Director, Herbert Wigwe, the aim of the event at the Guards Polo Club is to raise further awareness of the issues and support required. “Our support for the Fifth Chukker UNICEF initiative comes from the fact that we are conscious of our role as a change agent in Nigeria that can help institute socio-economic development through responsible business practice and environmental considerations. We are part of the community and as such should support its wellbeing,” he explained. June’s event is organised by The Access Bank UK Limited which has just published its Report and Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2014. A peep into the statements reveals  impressive growth indicators including a growth in operating income of 37% from 10.9-million in 2013 to £15-million. The Bank’s profit before tax grew by an outstanding 138% to £5-million. Commenting on the figures, Access Bank UK’s Chief Executive and Managing Director, Jamie Simmonds says: “This has been a transformational year for the Bank as we have continued to grow the business based on the firm foundations that we have established and also diversify our income streams to ensure sustainable performance. We believe we have succeeded in the current financial climate where others have failed through our focus on establishing strong relationships with all our customers and by developing products and services that move in line with their needs. “Our achievements owe a great deal to the strong partnership that we have with our parent company, as evidenced by our joint support of the fourth Access Bank Day at the Guards Polo Club in Windsor.” Only recently, the Access Bank UNICEF Charity Shield Polo team had presented N10m donation at the Fifth Chukker Polo & Country Club in Kaduna to support of UNICEF campaign against HIV/AIDS pandemic among Nigerian children. On that occasion, the Bank said that it had insisted on maintaining its yearly donation of N10m in supporting UNICEF towards its projects for orphans and vulnerable children even as it is continually seeking further avenues through which more resources can be pooled towards supporting the children. The bank has grown its total assets to N2.1trillion in 2014 from N1.8trillion it recorded in 2013. Its groups profit after tax stood at N42billion, while Gross earnings and earnings per share were N245.2billion and N188 respectively.