…Nkeiruka ”Kiki” Omeli  By AUSTIN FAIR NWAULU Like the meteor, Nkiruka ”Kiki” Omeli is one of the fastest rising acts in Nollywood, the movie industry that has lately overrun the entire continent of Africa and the world at large. And from all indications, she is not one of the gatecrashers that emerge and fizzle out unsung. What with the stature of movies and class of senior colleagues she has featured in and with, within a short space of time. Here is a brief count of the roles that have placed her indelibly on the list. ”Titi Haastrup” with Funke Akindele, Joseph Benjamin and Joke Silva in the 2012 hit movie ”Married but Living Single”. She has also become very famous as ”Lovette” in the ”Lekki Wives” television series. Beautiful, adorable, humble and noble, city blogger, Michael  Ekenyerengozi a.k.a ‘Orkinla’ surely made no mistake  in picking her as the ‘Beau of the Month’ for her enticing qualities and exploits in the industry. That is not all, Very soon, movie lovers would bow for her again in the flick ”Couple of Days” because of her wonderful display of excellence in role interpretation. ”I want to see Nollywood stars on the red carpets of Cannes and Oscars making the nominations for the best awards,” she says, adding. ”we have to take Nollywood higher to break records at the global film market.” Nkeiru said that she had high expectations for Biyi Bandele’s ”Half of a Yellow Sun”. ”But it failed to make it for Nigeria. I will be happier when I see Genevieve Nnaji, Omotola Ekeinde, Kiki Omeli, Ramsey Noah, OC Ukeje and others among the nominees for the highest honours at the Academy Awards, Cannes, Berlin, Durban and other world class events…” According to her, it is high time the competition moved from local to international levels. ”And then the media will have a major role to play in celebrating the best for their remarkable talents and not their private lives,” she added. Thank God, there is a ray of hope. With Nigerian film makers given yet another chance to participate in the prestigious Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (The Oscars), it means that soon Nkeiru’s dreams will become a reality.