 … unveils N200m cash prizes, free airtime promo By JUSTUS ADEJUMOH In response to the telecommunications industry competition to retain existing subscribers and attract new ones, Airtel Nigeria has launched a new exciting consumer Promo tagged Recharge & ‘Hit A Million’, which will produce 60 millionaires over the next 60 days. Over the duration of the promo,  the Telco will handsomely reward millions of its customers with cash prizes worth over N200 million; ranging from N1m daily prizes, N100,000 hourly prizes and N5,000 cash prizes as well as lots of free airtime and SMS. The promo is anchored on a point-based system where customers will accumulate points to increase their chances of winning by performing any network based mobile telephony  activity ranging from a recharge, voice call, data browsing session, SMS, or VAS deductions. Every day, the first mobile telephony activity gives the customer five entry points into the promo while subsequent recharges ranging from N100 to N1000 can attract as much as 50 entry points. Each of the activities carries specific number of entries into the raffle draw, so the higher the number of entries earned, the higher the chances of winning. The service provider which recorded 27,556,544 subscribers in the second quarter of this year, launched a responsive revolutionary CSR intervention tagged Airtel Touching Lives as one of the strategies to attract more subscribers. Aimed at enriching the quality of life of Nigerians while providing succour to the under-privileged members of the society. The initiative marked a significant milestone in the company’s history of CSR interventions in the country, as recipients of the programme have been emerging. The programme seeks to identify underprivileged persons with specific challenges, pains and struggles with the ultimate objective of providing the needed help to empower and enrich the lives of these individuals. Speaking with Hallmark, the Head of Public Relations of Airtel Nigeria, Femi Adeniran, said the network has been weathering the industry challenges with customer-friendly services and innovations. Announcing the new promo, Recharge & ‘Hit A Million’, Chief Commercial Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Maurice Newa, explained that the promo symbolizes Airtel’s brand promise of enriching Nigerians to realize their potentials. He said: “Everyone is a winner in the Recharge & Hit A Million promo, which is our own way of saying thank you to our customers and rewarding them for being on our network. He added that the company has engaged the services of a renowned firm in systems, processes and applications audit to supervise the draws and prize redemption processes in a bid to further demonstrate transparency and sustain Airtel’s well-known credibility in conducting consumer promotions that is in line with set regulations over the years. He, however, encouraged customers to ensure their phones are on and available at all times to increase their chances of receiving surprise calls from Airtel, and this could be anytime of the day. Customers who win cash prizes will be notified through a dedicated 08021900000 line while free airtime winners will receive direct credits to their phones. Customers who win N5, 000 cash prize will have the option to either redeem their prizes as physical cash or airtime. Those who choose to redeem their N5,000 cash prize via airtime will be credited with the corresponding value as main account airtime and notified through SMS. As a measure to guard against the activities of fraudsters who may want to take advantage of this promo to defraud unsuspecting customers, Newa reiterated that the company does not notify winners of their winning by SMS and does not request financial or security information such as bank account numbers or ATM pins as a precondition to redeem prizes. The promo is open to both prepaid and postpaid customers. Customers can always check their points and get more information by dialing *576# or by sending ‘POINTS’ to 576 