 BY CHINWE AGBEZE  One of the diverse reasons and perhaps the most important of them all why people get married is for procreation and when they don’t achieve this few months into marriage, they get worried. This was exactly how Mr. and Mrs. Chima Sunday who got married on the 28th of September 2008 felt when after six months there were no signs to indicate they were expecting a baby anytime soon. Like every woman, Mrs. Mary Chima was looking forward to taking in almost immediately but when she learnt she had slim chances of achieving, she took refuge in herbs. “When I did not conceive six months after I got married, I knew there was a problem and after conducting a test, I noticed I had fibroid. I resorted to herbal medicine and started drinking all kinds of herbal mixtures. We spent quite a lot going to four different herbal shops” Collaborating what his wife said, Mr. Chima Sunday said he had no idea how big his problem was so he took a giant step but in the wrong direction. “Unknown to me, my wife had multiple fibroid and this stood as a barrier. We immediately took to herbal drugs and wasted resources for nothing without knowing taking it the herbal way was not even an option” Mr. and Mrs. Chima retraced their footsteps after four years of patronizing herbal doctors without any visible result. “For four years, we treated it with herbal roots and when we were tired of not seeing results, someone introduced us to the Chief Gnaecologist at General Hospital, Gbagada who referred us to Me cure Health centre in Oshodi for tests” The tests confirmed their fears but Mr. Chima said their hands were tied and so there was little they could do besides waiting for the appropriate time which took another two years in coming. “After all their analysis, they said my wife had multiple fibroid and my result was not good too. We could not take out the fibroid immediately due to financial constraint. While the fibroid was still there, she menstruates three times in a month and the flow was like a river”, Chima said However, the result was an eye-opener for Mrs. Chima who thought the problem was exclusive to her and for Mr. Chima who never knew he had such problem. “When I visited the hospital with my husband, apart from confirming my fibroid status; the doctor also said my husband’s sperm count was too low to get me pregnant. The doctor also said my husband’s problem was a bigger issue compared to my fibroid issue. He placed my husband on drugs to boost his sperm count and I underwent the surgery. Four months after the surgery, I conceived”, Mary said. Seven years after marriage, Mrs. Mary who is now a proud mother of a lovely baby boy has an advice for those walking the part of infertility she once walked in. “I advise anyone with fibroid to visit qualified gynecologists and not waste money on herbal mixtures”