 Kunle Awosiyan | Senator Bukola Saraki of All Progressives Congress emerged the Senate President of the eighth Assembly because he agreed to work with Ike Ekweremadu of the Peoples Democratic Party as his deputy, Hallmark News has gathered. Saraki was the Chairman, Senate Committee on Environment and Ecology while Ekweremadu was the deputy to the immediate past Senate President, David Mark. Investigation revealed that the PDP caucus at both the upper and lower houses of the chambers capitalised on the division within APC on who should become the senate president to lure Saraki into their side. It will be recalled that the APC had adopted Ahmed Lawan and Geaorge Akume as its senate presidential candidate and deputy presidential candidate respectively at the weekend, a scenario Saraki and his supporters described as undemocratic. In his protest, Hallmark learnt that Saraki had to seek the assistance of two PDP governors from Southern part of the country who volunteered to bankroll the election for their colleague, the former Governor of Kwara State, Bukola Saraki. Another strategy the PDP caucus used was to fill the senate hallow chamber early this morning with Saraki’s supporters while Lawan and his supporters were busy seeking the intervention of President Mohammadu Buhari to appease the aggrieved members of APC. Following the announcement of the Clerk of the House that the eighth assembly would be inaugurated by 9am this morning, the Saraki’s group with the support of the PDP members ensured their presence while the gate was closed against the Lawan’s group. The Lawan’s group 51 of them were at the International Conference Centre, waiting to resolve the grievances within the two factions at the time Saraki was declared President. As a matter of fact, as at the time the election was going on, some of the Lawan’s group were seeing rushing into the chamber. However all the 57 present senators unanimously voted for Saraki. Also the former senate president, David Mark had been chosen as the senate leader while the positions of the majority and minority would be filled at the senate next sitting. The APC meeting to broker peace ended abruptly, following the announcement of Saraki as president. The party leaders of the party had hoped that a pep talk from the President himself could save the day. This was not to be as news of happenings within the National Assembly Complex jolted party leaders as they all rushed into their waiting vehicles and headed for the National Assembly. On his way out of the ICC, National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, said he had no comment or reaction on the happening at the Senate. “I have no comment, I have no reaction,” he added. APC National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun said, “We just watched it (on television) but we will address you when the whole situation has been re-examined.”  