The Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA) yesterday warned that 12 states might experience high flood this year. The Director-General of the agency, Dr Moses Beckley, gave the warning at the presentation of the 2015 Annual Flood Outlook in Abuja. Commenting on the highlight of the report, Beckley listed the states as Niger, Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers, Anambra, Taraba, Nasarawa, Kebbi, Sokoto, Adamawa, Kogi and Benue. Beckley said that probable risks areas in the country had been classified into: High Risk, Medium Risk and Low Risk Flood areas. He listed River Basins of Sokoto-Rima, Niger-Benue and Anambra as those that might experience high flooding. Beckley also said that local areas in Shinkafi, Biase, Chikum, Munya, Bukuru, Bonny, Etiosa among others might experience moderate flooding. The director-general said that Bayelsa, Rivers, Delta and Lagos are expected to experience coastal flooding due to the rise in sea level and tidal surge. He urged Nigerians to put in place responsive measures that would help in reducing flood hazards. According to him, the call is necessary because human activities are majorly responsible for recurrent flood in the country. “Indiscriminate dumping of refuse, deforestation, and poor drainage systems have devastating effect on the environment. Natural disasters are becoming more common all over the world, 80 per cent of these disasters are water-related. “This can be linked to the effect of climate change, it is a reality, and we can’t reverse it. That is why we must do all we can, through attitudinal changes, and measures in place to help in reducing flooding hazards,” he said. Beckley said that the devastating effect of flooding would greatly affect socio-economic development. The director-general said that with timely and proper responses, Nigerians do not need to worry about the rains. He recommended that all stakeholders should begin immediate public enlightenment on the need to desist from indiscriminate dumping of refuses and wastes. Beckley also urged all stakeholders to begin immediate maintenance of hydrological structures in the country, saying this would go a long way to reduce disaster risk. He also called for the immediate evacuation and relocation of people living in the flood-prone areas and waterways to further mitigate against any eventuality. Also speaking, the Director-General, Nigeria Metrological Agency, Dr Anthony Anuforom, commended NIHSA on the report. He said that this would go a long way to educate Nigerians on what to expect during the rainy season. Anuforom said that NIMET had made it a point of duty to educate Nigerians on weather forecast through its Seasonal Rainfall Predictions (SRP). He urged Nigerians to embark on disaster risk reduction measures to make the country safe for all. In his remark, Mr Istifanus Musa, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Water Resources, said that the report was drawn in partnership with NIMET’s SRP, and a long historical record of hydrological data. Musa, represented by Mr Joe Kwanashe, Director, Irrigation and Drainage, said that through sensitisation and early warning campaigns, there would be a reduction in loss of lives and property to flood. Musa urged Nigerians to collaborate with relevant stakeholders to put in place measures to protect the environment, saying that government could not do it alone. The Annual Flood Outlook provides flood forecasts and advice on precautionary measures on probable or critical flood zones.