 Respite may soon come the way of commuters and road users of the Ports access roads as the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) Western Ports met with officials of the Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA) on how to repair bad portions of the port access roads. The General Manager of Western Ports, Chief Michael Ajayi said the meeting with FERMA was to look for ways of bringing succor to commuters and road users plying the roads in Apapa. “The meeting is on-going and we are putting heads together to see what we can do. So whatever we can do, we will do and we will all comply. The meeting is ongoing.”, Ajayi disclosed. The NPA Western Port General Manager who bemoaned the traffic situation said it had affected port operations and threatened investment at the ports. Also, the Port Manager, Tin Can Island Port Complex, Babatunde Longe said the gridlock on the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway had shut down operations at the port. “The repair of the road is beyond Tin Can Island Port. We expect government to come to our aid because it has stopped port operations. “Government should repair the road so that stakeholders that have left can come back to work,” the Tin Can Island Port Manager had told Ajayi during a visit to the port last week.  Meanwhile, Ship owners, master mariners and other industry operators will converge on Apapa port today to discuss the issues relating to the operations and well- being of Nigerian Seafarers. The platform, provided by the Maritime Reporters Association of Nigeria (MARAN), is in commemoration of the annual Seafarers Day celebration held on every 25th June, each year by the member countries of International Maritime Organisation(IMO). To commemorate the day, MARAN has packaged a one-day seminar for Nigerian seafarers, master mariners, ship owners and other government agencies to discuss vital issues as they affect the seafarers in the country. The theme of this year event is “Seafarers in the Democratic Dispensation, How far have we fared?” According to the President of the association Mrs. Ifeyinwa Obi, the summit would focus on the challenges faced by the Nigerian Seafarers, the impact of NIMASA’s capacity building and the prospect of Nigerian seafarers in international shipping. “Seafarers are critical to the global economy; without them it will be difficult to move goods on board the ship from one continent to the other,” she said.