‘Don’t allow intrigues in the National assembly to tear APC apart’ Olusesan Laoye The Nigeria Voters Assembly has warned both President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the All Progressives Congress(APC)  to handle with care the ongoing rumblings among its members in the National Assembly so that it would not tear the party apart. The organization which spoke through its President Comrade Mosshood Erubami also wanted the APC leadership to handle the matter in a way that would not jeopardize the supremacy of the party.
Comrade  Erubami, in a chat with the Hallmark  said that with the situation of things, proper care should be taken so that the National Assembly crisis would not slow President Buhari down to fulfill what the APC promised the people of the country while seeking their votes.  Erubami who went down memory lane concerning mergers in the country in the past reiterated that no merger has succeeded in Nigeria from political history of the country and cautioned that going by that record, the APC should be careful in managing the success of its merger which eventually resulted into victory in the last election which produced President Buhari and the majority of the governors in the country and as well in the National Assembly.  He was a also of the opinion that  the President and the APC leaders should not   allow  the  strange bed fellows that strayed into the APC to stray back, like they came in saying, “If  the recalcitrant party members who take delight in sub-merging their party’s instruction on the platform of opportunism are allowed to stray out, it may rock the both of unity among the merging parties and advertently put power back into the hands of the PDP will later come up with a new name in future after they must have destroyed the party. He noted that for the Senate to fail to heed the suggestion contained in the letter sent from the office of the chairman of the party, stipulating those that should be selected for the principal offices in the senate, things are now being made more difficult for the APC, the owner of Government in which the Senators are just a part of the tools needed to run it. He4 said that  Nigerians  with a long  list of expectations  are now confused about which Masters script the senate president is playing and whether the party instructions meant anything to  him or he wants to continue to celebrate  being a dissident.  The voters assembly then warned that  under  no circumstance should the leadership of the APC  allows itself  to be used to achieve the nefarious objectives of a few who do not want  the country  to come out of its over sixteen years of unimpressive  government  of  tormentors.
The party he pointed out must put its feet down and should not only step on the toes of saboteurs and betrayers but move to crush their legs and whip them to behave and accept party supremacy
.
On a way out of the present mess he suggested that all the leaders and stake holders in the APC    merger should immediately meet to  identify  the reasons behind Saraki and others  actions   to prevent  individuals taking  decisions on important issues in  order to hold the team together.  He said that all appointments should be sent before these leaders and the stake holders who would discuss it to ensure that the positions are equitably and on justly distributed before presentation to the larger house to secure their commitment and support. The party he said, should insist on strict discipline and enforcements of its guidelines and policies without compromising its supremacy.