BY UCHE AKOLISA As the global paranoia about the Ebola Virus Disease(EVD) begins to abate, another deadly illness, the Middle-east Respiratory Syndrome(MERS) is taking centre stage, this time setting its lair in Saudi Arabia and South Korea. For anyone tapping on the frequently asked questions about the Middle–east Respiratory Disease, the answers may not radically be different from the Ebola disease that sent blood-congealing panic across the world, with that memory yet to settle. The havoc left by EVD is still felt by government, families and individuals across the world, particularly West Africa which was the epicenter of the attack. But how is the MERS different from Ebola? MERS is caused by the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus, which causes Middle East Respiratory. The real source has not been determined but it is believed that animals like camels may habour causative agents. Experts are however still trolling various sources for information about animals that could be habitable for the virus. In many respects, it functions like the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome( SARS. ) But MERS is not the same coronavirus that caused SARS, in 2003.But like the SARS virus, MERS it is most similar to the sort of virus found in bats. So far, the disease has stayed in its Middle-East origin with countries like Saudi Arabia (where it was first discovered in 2012), Qatar, Oman, Kuwait, Yemen, UAE, Iran etc harvesting cases of the disease. The dispersal of MERS has reached the US, UK, France, Philippines, Malaysia, Greece. African countries like Tunisia, Algeria and Egypt have risked the disease been brought in by travellers. The World Health Organisation has been received information of about 1,289 laboratory-proven cases of MERS infection, including at least 455 related deaths. Of all of these, South Korea has been the worst hit. It has recorded the most number of infections and deaths out of the Middle-east. Reports say that 150 MERS cases, including 18 deaths, have occurred in Korea. One of the infections was discovered in China. Symptoms The commonest indications of the MERS disease include fever, cough, gasping for breath. In some people, diarrhea and nausea and vomiting are prevalent. MERS patients could suffer severe complications such as pneumonia and kidney failure. Medical experts say people with long-term illness are more susceptible to the disease or record a severe bout when infected. Diabetes; cancer; and lung disease, heart, and kidney disease are more exposed in this circumstance. Individuals with weakened immune systems are also at higher risk for getting MERS or having a severe case. The American Centre for Disease Control, CDC says the incubation period is projected between 5 and 6 days but that it could extend for as long as 2-14 days. Since there is no established cure for it just yet, medical authorities advise that prevention should top priorities. This is also because it is difficult identifying people habouring the illness, since the symptoms are not clearly defined. Fluids, droplets, should be treated with maximum care while the air condition must be safe enough for respiration. Speaking with Hallmark on the raging infection, a public health expert, DrDoyinOdubanjo, while reassuring that  so far, evidence show Nigeria does not have MERS, warned  that the country  is at risk. “Nigerians should be worried because we are still in global village. People are travelling. “ Odubanjo  who is the Executive Secretary of Nigeria Science Academy called for  surveillance  by relevant authorities to prevent a repeat of what happened with the outbreak of Ebola in Nigeria. “We should be alert and monitor people coming from the affected areas. It behoves on us to keep up our surveillance and not wait until we have a case like the Ebola,” said Odubanjo noting that Ebola would have been prevented from entering Nigeria if  the country upped its surveillance since EVD  was imported  seven months after it was reported in Guinea. He advised Nigerians to continue toobserve the universal safety precautions such as hand-washing and  keeping their environment clean. While making a case for greater vigilance against the disease, the World Health Organisation said advised that holistic observatory methods be employed to ensure that MERS does take people and communities unawares. In a release recently, the global health body said it “was unable to conclude whether environmental contamination, inadequate ventilation or other factors played a role in the transmission of the virus in the outbreak [in South Korea], but made a number of recommendations to improve health facilities in the country to reduce the possibility of the virus being spread by these means in the future. The most important steps recommended by the mission to stop further cases of MERS-CoV in the Republic of Korea included: Early and complete identification of all contacts; Quarantine or isolation and monitoring of all contacts and suspected cases Full implementation of infection, prevention and control measures Prevention of travel, especially internationally, of infected persons and contacts.” While the organization is optimistic that these measures will help curb the spread in Korea and across the world, it is hoped that health authorities in Nigeria are keeping a tap on development, strengthening our health institutions so avoid being caught unawares. The suggestions by WHO and public Health experts deserve to be taken with utmost seriousness. This is even imperative because Nigerians are known for adventure and extensive travels. There is need to protect the country and itscitizens  from a fresh round of viral attack.