LUKMAN OLOGUNRO The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has stated that its decision to subject Stephen Keshi before its disciplinary committee is not to witch-hunt the coach.
Keshi, before eventually signed a two-year contract few months ago, has been at protracted loggerheads with officials of the Glass House and some of the coach’s loyalists are of the view that the coach is being targeted by the NFF for his perceived ‘sins’.
The Federation had said the coach needs to explain how his name surfaced in the list of coaches to be recruited for the coaching job of the Elephants
“The NFF President Amaju Pinnick has assured everyone and I am also assuring that we would be fair. We are not witch-hunting. If he is found not guilty tomorrow (today) we are moving on to the next plan of the Super Eagles. It is nothing personal but it is not right that we should see something like that and keep quiet. So it is not witch-hunting,” NFF 1st Vive president, Seyi Akinwunmi said.
A rather unperturbed Keshi breezed into the NFF Secretariat just before noon on Tuesday to answer a query over his application to become head coach of the Cote d’Ivoire national team despite being on a two-year contract with Nigeria.
On arrival, he proceeded straight to the Board Room of the NFF to meet with the Barrister Green-led NFF Disciplinary Committee.
Akinwumi had said Keshi has a case to answer and needs to explain how his name surfaced in the list of coaches to be recruited for the coaching job of the Elephants.
“Keshi has been queried and has to appear before the Disciplinary Committee of the NFF for allegedly applying for the Cote d’ Ivoire national team job.
“Looking at it morally how will he (Keshi) feel if you see today in the newspapers advertisement for the Super Eagles’ Chief Coach job. That is what he needs to explain.
“I heard that he said that he didn’t apply so let him come and defend himself before the Disciplinary Committee.
“We cannot pre-judge him. Sometimes things are not as they seems to be. Maybe he (Keshi) didn’t apply for the Cote d’ Ivoire job. Maybe somebody just use his name. It could be anything. I think we should just wait till tomorrow (today) to hear what Keshi explanations would be.
“What is important is that we (the NFF) must give him fair hearing. He is a Nigerian and he is our coach. So let’s give him fair hearing. Let him explain himself.
Meanwhile goalkeeper Vincent Enyeama did not show up before the committee and there is a widespread suggestion that he has made up his mind to face whatever consequence that arises from there.