 Training is set to commence for the first 1000 pan African entrepreneurs selected for the Tony Elumelu entrepreneurship programme. The two-day boot camp session which is scheduled to hold from July 10-12, 2015 in Ota, is organised by the Tony Elumelu foundation. The Tony elumelu foundation had engaged the emerging entrepreneurs in a 12-week online training programme that culminates in this thrilling two-day session. The step to creating 1000 Tony Elumelu’s in Africa by the Tony Elumelu foundation which was taken last year 2014 is gathering vigour as 400 Nigerians are among those selected for the programme. Interestingly, 600 participants were also selected from other 51 countries in Africa to benefit from the Journey of a life time for these lucky budding entrepreneurs. At a press briefing in Lagos yesterday, the foundation said the 1000 entrepreneurs selected from over 20,000 applicants, added that the Tony Elumelu Entrepreneurship programme (TEEP) was $100million Pan-African entrepreneurship initiative. ”I am confident that these entrepreneurs are Africa’s hope for the future”, Mr. Tony Elumelu says about the 1000 African entrepreneurs who will be arriving in Nigeria on July 10, 2015 for the two-day boot camp. Elumelu stated at the media event that what started as a dream had come to fruition, adding that it would catalyse other successful Africans’ to emulate the worthy course of helping to transform and develop Africa. Mr. Elumelu who has been vocal about entrepreneurship-led development and the push for a private sector-driven turnaround of Africa says, In empowering these emerging entrepreneurs, we are providing the capital, the networks, the training and support for them to drive economic and social transformation throughout Africa, providing solutions to its problems as well as securing their future and that of generations to come”. Elumelu challenged Africans to know that only they can develop their countries. He said he would prefer a situation where the continent would no longer be seen as always going cap in hand to beg developed economies for help or expect the west to transform it. Also speaking on the ideals of the programme and the need for training, Chief Executive Officer, Tony Elumelu Foundation, Parminder Vir,said ” we are excited to be pushing the envelope and providing a springboard for this set of emerging African entrepreneurs to take over the world with their innovative ideas, beginning from their local communities. At the end of this boot camp, we want them to have come,seen and be transformed into full-fledged entrepreneurs and ambassadors for Africapitalism”. According to her, our entrepreneurs will receive $5000 seed capital funding, as well as continued monitoring and support as they refine and execute their business plans. Upon completion of business plans, select businesses can receive a further $5,000 low interest loan and access to our Angel investor network. ”The over 19,000 entrepreneurs who were not selected this year have been invited to join the Tony Elumelu Entrepreneurship network where they will be able to further hone the entrepreneurial knowledge and skills”, she added