 DANIEL AMASINGHA, Minna The Bishop of Anglican Communion, Rt. Reverend Dapo Asaju, has appealed to Nigerians to pray for President Mohammadu Buhari and all others elected to pilot the affairs of the country at all tiers of government. The plea for Gods’ intervention in the affairs of the country is coming against the backdrop of the numerous challenges facing the All Progressive Congress (APC) administration led by President Buhari and the need for God to guide him right in taking decisions that will be to the best interest of the generality of the entire citizenry.  Bishop Asaju who is the guest speaker to the centenary anniversary celebration of the Saint Peters’ Anglican Church, now The Cathedral Church of Saint Peters, Minna, said that the country and indeed those in leadership position need prayers more than ever to succeed. “God’s intervention can bring about desired change Nigerians are yearning for,” Bishop Asaju said and called on Christians to emulate the Israelites of the Bible days who after obeying the ten commandments, sought and received from God the leeway towards solving their problems whenever the need arises. “Nigerians have gotten the change they desire in baton of leadership but without peace among the diverse ethnic and religious nationalities the present administration cannot make expected impact hence the need for fervent prayers from all patriotic Nigerians. “No nation, world over has suffered like Israel, yet no nation has been favoured by God like Israel”, Asaju said. He challenged Nigerians to humble themselves by resisting sin in any form and call upon God so that ‘he will heal our land’. The theme of the anniversary, ‘Ebenezer’ a Greek word meaning ‘A stone of help’, he said should serve as a reminder to Christians that God is not man that fails hence the need for those in leadership positions to lead with the fear of God, trusting God that it will be well with Nigeria. Bishop Asaju also blamed youth restiveness and rise in crime on the breakdown in the nation’s family system and therefore challenged parents on the need not to relegate their God given responsibilities of bringing up their children in the fear of God to strange persons.  