 Professor Attahiru Jega will be remembered if not for anything, but for being the man that supervised the election that brought down a ruling party and an incumbent President. EZUGWU OBINNA reports It is a mixed grill of knocks and kudos for the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, Prof Attahiru Jega as he exits the stage after serving out his term in office. Jega yesterday, after five memorable years as Chairman of INEC, handed over the mantle of leadership to the hitherto INEC National Commissioner, Mohammed Wali in what many have described as end of an era. His appointment as INEC boss on June 8, 2010 by former president Goodluck Jonathan marked a new dawn in the country’s electoral process, especially after the controversial era of Prof. Maurice Iwu. That period was notorious for electoral malpractices and impunity. But his exit could also mark the beginning of a new era in the country’s electoral system, perhaps a more independent commission. When he took over from his predecessor, Iwu in 2010, Jega promised Nigerians a credible election in 2011. But for a fact, not many would have taken him seriously going by the pedigree of his predecessors, notably, Abel Guobadia and Iwu. The duo’s reign had in a sense convinced the Nigerian populace that there was never going to be a free and fair election in the country. Guobadia sat over the general election in 2003, an election that would be remembered for all the wrong reasons. There were, of course the preponderance of electoral fraud, one that was attested to by even the international community. His immediate successor, Iwu presided over a no less fraudulent election in 2007, an election that even its greatest beneficiary the late President Umaru Musa Ya’adua admitted was flawed. It was for this reason that he decided to form a unity government to assuage frayed nerves. He also initiated the electoral reform process. It was not surprising therefore, that when Jega was named as INEC chairman in 2010, his promise of entrenching a new order of credible election was to many Nigerians, a mere cheap talk by a new appointee wanting to impress the public. Many had concluded it was going to be business as usual; he was going to oversee a process of credible selection as it were. Not even the corresponding promise by Ya’adua to oversee a more acceptable election than the one that brought him to power and the subsequent assurance by Goodluck Jonathan upon Jega’s appointment in 2010 could convince Nigerians that there was any need to be hopeful. But all that was to change in 2011 after that year’s presidential election. It was the first time since 1999 that people’s votes indeed counted. Even the international community was convinced. Jonathan, the then president floored his closest rival, the current President Muhammadu Buhari to emerge the country’s elected president. Although Buhari’s supporters in the North disagreed and went on a killing spree, it was only a case of sour losers venting unnecessary anger on innocent country men and women. Jega had scored his credit mark. In the just concluded 2015 general elections, Jega, in the lead up to the polls, worked assiduously to surpass his 2011 record. He insisted on the use of permanent voter’s cards (PVC), as well as introduced the card readers which helped to control over voting. For many eligible voters who could not vote or had to spend long hours queuing under the sun and to pass through the unflinching card readers, it was perhaps a minus for the election. But for those in areas where it worked, and invariably helped to check malpractices, it was a commendable invention. In all however, many thought the card readers were necessary. But the argument as to whether or not Jega should have introduced such a novel invention in a high profile election such as the presidential election has, and almost certainly, will continue to rage. Aside the card readers, his insistence on the use of PVCs also met a measure of success and failure. While thousands of people in Lagos and elsewhere were lamenting their inability to lay hands on their PVCs due most times, to the deliberate policies of INEC officials, it was noted that the same cards were being taken to people’s houses in other parts of the country especially in the North through the traditional rulers. Again, the PVCs just like the card readers helped to check electoral fraud overall and once again, Jega was given a credit mark by both local and international observers. The election though was not without pockets of incidents here and there, but overall Jega earned his respect and has emerged perhaps one of the best chairmen of INEC. Though there are those who accused Jega of scientifically favouring one of the presidential candidates during the election, one thing that everyone agrees on is that he has set the stage for a new era of credible election in Nigeria, an era where the votes will count. A standard for whoever will succeed him as the substantial INEC boss to build on. And even former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar agrees. The former VP yesterday, hailed what he called the enviable records set by Jega as INEC chairman, mentioning specifically the PVCs and the card readers as his notable inventions into the electoral system. He stated that both inventions have tremendously boosted Jega’s reputation and earned him respect of Nigerians and the international community. Atiku’s eulogies were contained in a statement released by his media office. In all nonetheless, it would be unfair to pay all the tributes to Jega without commending the political will on the part of Jonathan which ensured that he achieved such feat for which Nigerians commend him, and importantly, for having the political foresight to appoint a person of his caliber to head INEC. The outgoing INEC boss at the time of his appointment was the Vice Chancellor of Bayero University, Kano, BUK and hails from Kebbi State. His journey into political limelight did not however, start during his time in INEC; he was the president of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, in the 90s. He led the academic union during the period one could rightly describe as one of its most challenging period, the time of former military president, General Ibrahim Babangida (retd) and typically delivered. He was head of Political Science department, Bayero University, Kano, before his appointment as Vice Chancellor of the university. His appointment as INEC boss came four months before the expiration of his tenure as Vice Chancellor. Jega had also served as member in the Uwais Electoral Reforms Committee established by late president, Umar Yar’Adua, to suggest reforms in the electoral system. As he called it a day with INEC yesterday, there can be little doubt that he would be remembered for overseeing what has been noted to be the most memorable election in the country, an election that saw, for the very first time, the defeat of an incumbent president and a ruling party by the opposition. Jega has meanwhile promised to go back to the academic world after taking time to rest.