The industrial action embarked upon by health workers of the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Ebute Meta, Lagos, yesterday took its toll on patients of the hospital. The workers under the aegis of Joint Health Workers Union (JOHESU) had on Tuesday began indefinite strike at the expiration of the strike notice. All patients on admission at the hospital were sent out while all the wards were placed under lock and key by the aggrieved workers. Essential activities were also paralysed at the hospital as all categories of health workers stayed away from their duty posts as directed by the union leaders. Investigation revealed that all outpatients were prevented from gaining access to the hospital, while security guards were seen manning the main gates. When contacted, Mr Julius Achonwa, the Chairman of FMC Chapter of the union, said that the strike was indefinite. “The Chief Medical Director, Dr Yewande Jinadu, did not make herself available at the meeting, and we cannot discuss with those she sent as they did not have executive power. “At the end of the day, she would deny whatever agreement we reach on the ground that she was not the one that signed. “So, the strike is on and we don’t know when it is going to last. It is not a warning strike, it is indefinite,” he said. In her comment, the hospital’s chief medical director said: “My regret was that the wards were locked up. “The patients were driven out in spite of the fact that I came to the hospital to hold meetings with the union leaders which they turned down. I invited them to a meeting and they turned down the invitation. I have been on leave since June 8 and I can assure you that many things have been done to avert this strike. “First and foremost, the board stepped in and called the union leaders to a meeting ahead of their first ultimatum. They were not prepared for that meeting and asked for postponement.” Jinadu said that contrary to the workers’ complaints, all the four Federal Government-owned hospitals in Lagos do not give three months terminal leave for their workers as being demanded by the union. “It is optional since it is preparation for the payment of gratuity that is already computerised. The promotion arrears for 2013 and 2014 have not been paid to the management. “So, I challenge anybody who has evidence of its payment to the management to come out and prove it. On the call duty allowance, there is no budgetary allocation to cover it. The allegation of using obsolete and outdated equipment is unfounded and our generating set is working perfectly well,’’ she said. According to her, FMC Ebute-Meta has the greatest traffic of outpatients’ patronage, even in the event of strike last year. “When some left after the strike, they came back after considering the services we render here; we are rendering quality services in this hospital. “Initially, when we were charging N50 for consultation and prescribing drugs which were old practice of consultation, we noticed that the rate of mortality was high. “This happened because patients were not using their drugs. So, now we charge N250 with the drugs to be administered, and we noticed that the mortality rate has reduced,’’ she said. Also commenting, the board Chairman, Prof. Durosimi Etti, said: “We have found to a large extent that the young men and women on strike were misguided in a way. “The board had extensively discussed this and opened a line of communication. In fact, the board chairman met them twice and they aborted the meetings.” The union had issued strike notices to the hospital management on their demands and held a rally to sensitise the public on the need to prevail on the management to address workers demands. The union had complained about the outdated equipment in the hospital and high cost of treatment for patients which was affecting patronage and making them redundant. Other issues raised by the union include non-payment of promotion arrears since 2013, three months pre-retirement leave, lack of training and unfair treatment of members of staff on NHIS.