By Felix Oloyede The African Development Bank (AfDB) yesterday said it would spend N3.3 billion on the provision of rural infrastructure in Kano State. The Country Director of the Bank, Dr Usman Dori, disclosed this during a visit to the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II in Kano. Dori, who said the projects would focus on Water and Agricultural sectors, added that the intervention in Agriculture would be carried out through the bank’s programme on Agricultural Transformation Agenda. He also said that the programmes, initiated by the bank, would be carried out in five states. The director said 200 kilometers of feeder roads, 330 kilometers of irrigation and water conveyance channel, nine boreholes and two healthcare centres would be provided in the state. He said the projects would create thousands of jobs opportunities for the unemployed youths in the state, adding that more than 300,000 farmers were expected to benefit from the initiative under the
irrigation programme. He said the bank’s intervention on water sector would consume 2.6 million Euros and expressed the readiness of the institution to partner with the Emirate Council to execute the projects. Responding, Sanusi commended the bank for the initiative and assured that the council would support the initiative to ensure success of the projects.  6 fuel-laden ships arrive Lagos ports  The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) disclosed this in its daily publication, `Shipping Position’, made available to newsmen on Monday in Lagos. The document also reported that a ship laden with rice had also arrived the port to discharge. NPA said that 31 other ships were expected to arrive the ports from June 29 to July 15. The document indicated that the expected ships were laden with fresh fish, buck wheat, crude palm oil, bulk gas, petrol, kerosene, fresh fish, diesel, general cargo, bulk bauxite, bulk soya and containers. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 21 other ships are at the ports discharging buck wheat, steel products, bulk rice, clinker, base oil, petrol, diesel, butane and bulk soya .