  Adeola Ogunrinde |  Brain Onu has written a book for the former governor of Rivers Sate, Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi. The book titled Rotimi Amaechi and the 7 O’clock News  is a  36 page book, a fictitious narrative on the political career of the former Rivers Sate Governor. The main idea of the book is to teach school children in Rivers State and Nigeria at large about Politics, while not intending to drag them to politics, that it is not all about violence, not a do or die game , not about bloodshed , ballot box stealing but politics that finds solution to the common good of the citizens. Onu said the inspiration behind the book is based on the former governors love for the political future of Nigeria, his love for child education and believe that by imbibing the principles of free and fair political aspiration, school children’s mindset would be corrected from politics as it is practiced today. According to Onu If we can change the minds of the children, we have changed the future, if we succeed in changing the future, we have changed the nation, it is God’s earnest desire for me to write Rotimi Amaechi and the seven o’clock News. The book which is powered by the former Rivers State Liaison officer in Lagos, Aso Wena, who got involved in the project after seeing the relevance it plays in political reorientation of young Nigerian school children towards a better political future for the country. The book which is a fictitious exposition of Rotimi Chibuike Amechi’s early life ,political aspiration with curiosity over politicians and how politics should be practiced in the interest of the masses. The book clearly defines the true qualities of good and bad politicians, while the former deliver on their campaign promises, the later concerns themselves with amassing wealth and having no development to show during their tenure. Onu believes Amaechi fought for change in this country, and as a model of socio-economic and political change, his projection is that change should not be temporary but a permanent thing. Therefore, his love for children spans to letting this book spread all over the country for the sake of saving the country’s political future. 