   My beloved Abians, I am humbled by the great and onerous responsibility you have bestowed on me to serve you and lead our State as the 4th democratically elected Governor, to develop her potentials and achieve our collective dream of uplifting the life of every Abian. I accept it with a heart full of love and commitment for our dear state. I regard it as the highest honor to lead Abia at this time in our democratic journey. I pledge to use all my strength and ability to live up to your expectation of me, as your Governor. As we acknowledge our electoral achievement, let us remind ourselves that it is not so much a victory of one party over another but a celebration of our democracy and our collective resolve to deepen and sustain it in Abia and Nigeria. We thank GOD and our great party men and women who through their selfless efforts and hard work contributed to our victory. I salute you! Your clamour for an even and effective distribution of our common wealth is captured in our slogan “Okezuo Abia”. Your desire and aspirations shall drive our actions in Government. I am personally indebted to: -The Immediate past Governor of Abia State, His Excellency Theodore Ahamefula Orji -The people of Abia, who came out in hundreds of thousands under rain and sun, in long queues for many hours, to elect me. These include; Mothers, Fathers, Youths, Market Women, Trade Unions and Town Unions -The People Democratic Party on whose platform I have been elected and given this mandate -Ndi Eze -Religious Leaders, and many others out there. May God continue to bless you. We extend the hand of fellowship to our brothers and sisters in other Parties, who contested with us in the elections. I share these words of Tom Wilson, for our benefit “Many of us are more capable than some of us…but none of us is as capable as all of us” We are all winners. We all desire the upliftment of the living standard of our people and for Abia State to achieve greatness. Now is the time to set aside our differences and work together to deliver the greatness we recognise in ourselves and aspire to for all of us. Our dear State is known as ‘God’s own State’ and the time has come for us to explore and optimize fully all the resources and advantages that God has bestowed on us. The resourcefulness and diligence of our people, our unique geographical location and natural resources must be developed and utilized to the collective benefit of our people and those around us. To the glory of God, the hitherto pervasive insecurity which plagued Abia in years past has been reversed, thanks to the diligence of our dear Governor Theodore Ahamefule Orji. Ochendo, his commitment to ensuring the entrenchment of security, peace and equity in our state is very much appreciated and we shall build on that Legacy to transform our state. Our story as a people is one of entrepreneurship, resourcefulness and diligence. This is our pride. We have astounded the world with our homegrown technical skills, especially during a period of pervasive adversity, and followed it up with our trade and commercial prowess elevating one of our cities, Aba, into a prominent commercial hub within the West African region. This historic renown is to become our future narrative. The time is ripe to use the over 110,000 shoemakers and 50,000 garment makers as a launching pad to enable Abia to truly become the undisputed SME capital of Nigeria. I agree with the view of the great American industrialist, Harvey Firestone, “The growth and development of people is our highest calling of leadership”. Great Abians, our administration is fully committed to providing the enabling environment and infrastructure to facilitate the growth and development of Abia and its people; positioning it as a premier residential, business and tourism destination, with the ultimate objective of uplifting the lives of our people. It is achievable!!! But it requires our collective commitment, sacrifices and contributions, ‘ka oke zuo onye obula’ as well as upholding our values of Being God fearing, Belief in Abia, Integrity, Innovation and Quality. Aba was for many years a thriving hub for manufacturing and commerce until epileptic electricity supply and insecurity forced the shutdown of most of our indigenous and foreign owned industries. We must therefore recognize and appreciate the efforts of the Geometric Power Group and the Federal Government’s NIPP project at Alaoji towards providing a solution to the perennial challenges of electricity supply to our state. The forthcoming operationalisation of these plants will provide a critical input towards the actualization of our blueprint and roadmap for the regeneration of Aba and the entire Abia State. We shall pursue it with vigor. In line with our commitment to strengthening the existing security situation in the state, we will continue to provide support to the law enforcement agencies to improve and sustain a more efficient incident response time and introduce contemporary technology-based solutions to assist in the enhancement of Security. This is the dawn of the new Abia. In this new Abia, instead of giving our people fish (handouts), we will focus on leading them to grow economically. Fortunately, the average Abian is hardworking and enterprising; we shall therefore launch Abia into an accelerated economic growth phase by building on the following FOURENABLERS or FACILITATORS of economic and social development: Our land Abia is blessed with its strategic geographic location and direct accesses to 7 other states. We can regain our status as a major commercial and transport hub in the South-East/South-South region of Nigeria. We have opportunities to forge partnerships that enable us all to implement economic goals, drive accelerated growth in our KEY ECOMOMIC SECTORS so our hopes and dreams are achieved. These sectors include:  This government will aim to work with educational visionaries to embolden people and prepare them to embrace local, national and global opportunities. We will create an environment where a concentration of world-class educational facilities are present in the state in an area we will call a schools district. The location of this district will be made public before or at the first year anniversary of this administration.  Still in the area of advancing the capabilities (i.e. skills and mindsets of our people) this administration will institute an EYIMBA CARNIVAL. We will rebuild our cultural environment with a large elephant in the lead. This carnival will be a show of our rich culture and our commercial creativity and will be held every December starting from next year. Our vision is ambitious but entirely achievable and will require sacrifice and perseverance. In the light of dwindling federal allocations to states, and as we facilitate a paradigm shift in terms of income generation for the state, hard decisions are necessary. My government has as a priority huge optimization in government spending. While this will go a long way, it must be complimented by very significant internally generated revenue growth. This is a MUST DO. This government intends to be firm in plugging all revenue leakages alongside developing new channels. I call on all sons and daughters of Abia to key into this by ensuring that they fulfill their statutory obligation to pay all their taxes timely. We will restructure our Inland Revenue Service to become a strategic contributory parastatal in the actualization of our vision for Abia. We will bring private sector competence and mindset to this agency thus paving the way for significantly increased IGR levels. With this, our vision for better life for our people can be realized. In addition to all the above this administration will emphasize the following: We must make it work for all of us. I want to call on our sons and daughters in the diaspora, Abians in the organized private sector, Abians at home, the organized private sector in Nigeria and the Federal Government to engage and partner with us in the development of our state. “Individual commitments to a group effort,” That is what makes a team work, a company work, a society work, a civilization work.” Those are the wise words of Vince Lombardi, the great American sports coach.  I ask our brothers and sisters in diaspora to key into opportunities that emerge – bring your investment funds, but more importantly afford us the benefits of your knowledge, insights and experiences. We will greatly appreciate them. Starts an office or a new business in Abia today and you would have started making your support count immediately. Finally, my beloved Abians, ask of us the same high standards of character and sacrifice that we have promised you, because I am most optimistic, that with good conscience as our only sure reward, with history the final judge of our deeds, and with God on our side we will provide the leadership that we all will be proud of. God Bless Abia state!!! DR OKEZIE VICTOR IKPEAZU, GOVERNOR OF ABIA STATE. 