 The period of sleepless nights and violent crimes in Delta State appear to be a thing of the past as the new Commissioner of Police, Alkali Baba Usman introduces strategies to stamp out criminality with the cooperation of the state government. BARRY AGBANIGBI in Asaba reports Periods of elections used to be a nightmare for the people of Delta State. This period, quite often, witnessed an upsurge in criminal activities especially kidnapping, snatching of ballot boxes, electoral materials, armed robbery, car snatching, house breaking, bank robbery and other forms of violent crimes. Apart from the season, crime rate was always a matter of concern for the authority and the residents alike. The notorious places included Warri and surrounding towns, Agbor, Kwale, Sapele, Ughelli and the state capital Asaba. In these places, residents were always apprehensive of their lives and property as a result of the activities of hoodlums who engage in one form of crime or the other, mostly house robbery. Business houses such as banks and petrol stations became special targets for the men of the underworld. There has been a major reversal of the situation as residents of the state have observed. Through the period of the election, before, during and after there was noticeable reduction in the crime wave. Residents of the state have not only observed the new trend, but have applauded the authorities of the Delta State Police Command for curbing the hitherto unwholesome situation. The State Police Commissioner, Mr. Akali Baba Usman and men of his command are largely responsible for the continuing decline of the crime situation. Since he assumed office, Mr. Usman has devised strategies and tactics to beat the criminals to their game. The state government has been in partner with the state police command in the efforts to bring down the crime rate in every part of the state. Anti-crime patrol of the state has intensified considerably. Various security outfits such as the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Delta storm, Highway Patrol and the Elite Joint Patrol Force involving the army, police and Navy frequently patrol every nook and cranny of the state to keep the criminals at bay. Mr. Usman himself is not new to the task. He is a known crime-fighter and reputed for his zero tolerance for every aspect of crime. He has served as the deputy commissioner of police Ebonyi, Abuja and Kaduna. He takes personal interest in the welfare of his officers and men of the command to ensure that they perform optimally and efficiently in the anti-crime war. Those who know the state well will agree that there has been no major breakthrough by criminals in the state especially since Mr. Usman took office as the state police boss. It is noteworthy that there has been no successful bank robbery anywhere in the state as the command adopted proactive strategies against such criminal activities. Cases of armed robbery along the crime-prone highways particularly around Obiaruku and Kwale, Ughelli-Warri have been brought under control due to regular patrols by security outfits. The robbers who before now operated at will in these places appear to have learnt better than to confront the well-armed security and patrol teams. In Asaba, Warri, Agbor, Ughelli and other urban centres of the state black spots are frequently identified and put under surveillance to checkmate crime. This appears to be paying off just as the activities of criminals operating on commercial vehicles have been checked substantially. This is clearly evident in most parts of the state. During the recent tour of police in the state, Police Commissioner Usman urged police personnel to dedicate themselves fully to the task of making the state uncomfortable for the criminals in reciprocation for the various incentives put in place by the Inspector General of Police to enhance their welfare. He assured them that the police authority would always give them the necessary support materially in their effort to checkmate the activities of the hoodlums. Given the highly motivated men and women of the command, excellent leadership role of the commissioner and the support of the state government, there is every belief that the declining trend of crime in the state will be sustained. It must be stressed that such crime situation was not peculiar to Delta State. It cuts across the entire nation but more rampant in Niger Delta. The pre-occupation of the law enforcement agents, especially the Nigeria Police, since the return of civil democratic rule in May 1999, has been to curb the ugly situation and make life safer for Nigerians. The man in charge of this renewed and unrelenting offensive against criminals is Mr. Akali Baba Usman the Delta State Commissioner of Police. Since he assumed his current position, he has left no one in doubt about his zero tolerance for crime. He is a no-nonsense crime fighter who has given the war against criminals in the state a new impetus as witnessed in the decline in violent crimes in urban centres and rural areas where he has given recognition to vigilance groups. In the state capital, Asaba for instance, bank robbery has almost become a forgotten occurrence as the last attempt by armed robbers to raid banks took place several months ago. Both the general public and the business community are appreciative of this development in the state. The reason for this is the regular policing of the city by stern- looking anti-crime police patrols operating within and around Asaba. Their regular presence on the streets must have given the criminals much cause for a rethink. Criminal activities perpetrated by gang-stars in major towns and cities of the state appear to be on the decline, thanks to effective policing and patrolling. Also, robbery attacks in residential areas have reduced noticeably due to strategies put in place by the command. There is an improvement in detection and proactive techniques in view of their increased raids and surveillance of known black spots. Such activities have had the combine effect of nipping criminal activities in the bud. It is noteworthy that there is better police-civilian relationship engendered by the improved security situation. Growing confidence in the command is seen in the fact that more people are giving vital information to the police to help in curbing crime. The commissioner of police, his officers and men of the command deserve every commendation for their tireless efforts. Residents of the state especially the capital city, Asaba, have every cause to heave a sigh of relief as a result of the improved security situation. At least, they now sleep with two eyes closed, night life has bounced back and socio-economic activities have resurfaced fully. According to Barrister Clement Ogbeh, a resident of Asaba who has lived in Asaba for over 16 years, “Crime history in Asaba is as old as its creation. We have witnessed several years of sleepless nights, years of burglary, broad-day light and night robbery, assassinations of persons and theft. They inflicted pains, sorrow, agony and tears on residents. But recently, the crime record of the state has changed. Social life, particularly night-activities have returned to Asaba. We no longer live in fear of armed banditry and burglary. The current commissioner of police has made us proud. He has ensured constant patrol of his men in the entire state. Criminals are traced to their hide-outs. I think he has done well.” Mrs. Rosemary Otoeno, an operator of popular brothels in Asaba recalled several years of sleepless nights in Asaba. She said she was robbed twice within six months in Asaba. It was a nightmare staying in Asaba, now Asaba crime story has changed. Crime wave has dropped; all the crime fighting techniques of the police command are yielding positive results. My small business located in the state capital now records better results as its patronage has gone up. We now live without fear of being attacked.” 