  Last week, a new speaker for Anambra State House of Assembly emerged after a week of high power politicking. In this piece, DAVID-CHYDDY ELEKE in Awka looks at the profile of the new speaker and the agenda ahead of her   Mrs.Rita Maduagwu is the lawmaker representing Nnewi South state constituency 11 in the Anambra State House of Assembly. She hails from Ukpor and is said to be a 2008 law graduate from the University of Lagos. Maduagwu is a two time legislator who debuted in the House in 2011 on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party(PDP). She is 48 years old and fondly called ‘Odiuko’. Prior to her emergence there existed an unwritten pact on power sharing in Anambra State, and with the governor, Chief Willie Obiano coming from Anambra North, and his deputy, Dr Nkem Okeke from Anambra Central, members of the Assembly from the two zones were ab-initio disqualified from seeking for the position. On the other hand, only returning members who are known to have cognate experience in lawmaking are the ones to be nominated for the position, and that further narrowed the race to just a few individuals. Hon Maduabum representing Nnewi South 11; Hon Ikem Uzoezie, Hon Kingsley Iruba and Hon Nikky Ugochukwu are the four members from the Southern senatorial zone of the state who are also returning members and who had slugged it out in the secret power game over who gets the support of other members of the House to become the speaker. Beyond the support or choice of the members of the House from other zones, there are also vested interests who had worked hard to ensure that only a candidate loyal to their interest would emerge the speaker. The candidates were seeking the support of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, which almost solely constitutes the Assembly,the immediate past national chairman of the APGA, Chief Victor Umeh who still remains a force to reckon with in the state and Governor Obiano, who sweated it out to ensure full delivery of the 30-member Assembly to his party, except for three members from PDP. Hon Princess Nikky Ugochukwu who is to be the oldest serving member of the House was initially favoured for the job, even though there were expressions of sentiment about her; a woman, succeeding the out-going speaker, Hon Princess Chinwe Nwaebili who was also a woman. This may have led to her being dumped by various interest groups. Ikem Uzoezie was also highly favoured as he comes from the same zone. Ikem is a young politician, vibrant and also experienced in the art of lawmaking. He is second termlawmaker. Ikem is favoured more because his emergence will mean a shift from the female folks to the male, and for a youngman, this will help to shape his career and also give the youths a sense of belonging. This however did not fly when many variables were brought to into play. Governor Obiano wants a loyal speaker, and even though there are no signs that Ikem may betray the governor or the party, his mother who was a commissioner for women’s affair under Peter Obi was a minus for him. His mother, Ego Uzoezie is said to be a die-hard follower of Obi, though she also holds the former APGA national chairman in high esteem. With all these, the Governor is said to be confused about where he features in the heart of the Uzoezies, and this was said to have cost him the seat. It was however gathered that Kingsley Iruba, an equally young politician from Aguata 11 state constituency may have been penciled down for the speakership. Though it was argued that he is a young politician, but sources said he is just the perfect kind that would diligently obey orders, it was not clear how he was dumped for the job. The new speaker, Barr Rita Mmaduagwu is a second timer like Uzoezie and Iruba, Rita was a Lagos based lawyer before she enlisted into politics, and seen as a good choice for the speaker considering her background as a lawyer. The various power blocs settled for her even though there were some dissenting voices about a female speaker succeeding the outgoing one, but this was not enough to put her away, thus her emergence two weeks ago. On the whole, Maduagwu seems a round peg in a round whole with her recent moves since after her election as the speaker. She, in the maiden sitting of the House had galvanized the lawmakers to set agenda for the 6thAnambra State House of Assembly. Maduagwu in an interview with journalists in Awka after its first sitting before adjourning for a month said that the House also set up the selection and legislative committees and shared principal positions. The committees she said will come up with all the items that will guide the House in the next four years, adding that with the induction class of first time legislators completed, it is expected that a kind of liaison between old and new members of the House would be established to make for the necessary synergy required to create the vibrancy expected in its debates. She said that she had in the course of their deliberations advised members to endeavour to sponsor private bills, especially the ones that will help the state governor on Internally Generated Revenue as well as bills that will impact positively on the people. Against the backdrop of criticisms that the immediate past 5th Assembly was largely pedestrian with as many as seven members of the defunct Assembly not being able to sponsor a bill or motion for four years, the speaker said it would be a different ball game under her guide, a reason the legislative agenda was set up and members advised to sponsor bills. “I am a Lawyer by profession and making law is part of me. The problem in the 5th Assembly is that most of the bills were executive bills. I am now encouraging members to make private bills. The legislative agenda will include motions and bills. We have to work in synergy with the governor and the Judiciary,” she stressed. 