…youths plan protests over nominees profile
By Barry Agbanigbi, ASABA Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa Tuesday forwarded the list of 12 nominees to the state House of Assembly for appointment as Commissioners. Okowa in a letter addressed to the Speaker of the House, said the nomination was in exercise of session 192 (2) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as Governor of the State. The nominees include; Mrs. Mary Awhotu-Iyesere, Mr. John Nani, Dr
Kingsley Emu, Mr. James Augoye, Mr. Vincent Uduaghan, Barrister Newworld Safugha, Arch Joe Ogeh, Sir Fidelis Tilije and Revd Omatsola Williams. Others include Mr. Austin Chikezie, Mr. Joyce Overah and Mr. Chiedu Ebie. Okowa in the letter said he would highly appreciate if early action was taken to place the list before the House for consideration and confirmation of the nominees to enable him constitute the state executive council. The governor said the list was the first set of nominees for the appointments of commissioners and members of the state executive council. While presenting the list to the entire House, the newly elected speaker, Hon. Monday Ovbigho Igbuya spoke on the imperatives of peace as he urged all Deltans to put behind them the bitterness and acrimony that may characterize various appointments made so far by the state government. This plea may have been promoted by wide spread speculations of a planned protest by a group of persons over the profile of some of the nominees presented to the state House of Assembly by the executive for ratification. The group was said to have been dissatisfied with re-emergence of some of the nominees over their failed role as commissioners in the former administration of Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan. “I would like to openly invite particularly Deltans who may have reasons in the future to disagree with us or criticize our style of legislative process, to kindly accept to go into meaningful dialogue with us for the sake of strengthening unity and promotion of democracy.” “It’s a great honour to be the speaker of this great and very vibrant House, Hon. Igbuya said. Meantime, the speaker has directed the nominees to submit to the House 35 copies of the curriculum vitae to reach the Clerk of the House before Thursday this week and appear for screening on Tuesday, 30th June 2015.