 Opeyemi Oshoko | The Nigerian National Summit Group, NNSG, has faulted the report by Amnesty International on the Nigerian Military describing the report as biased and slanted to fulfil a dubious agenda. The Executive Secretary of group, Mr. Tony I. Uranta, accused AI of attempting to deploy blackmail to cause discontent between President Muhammadu Buhari and the military in Lagos on Monday. According to him, the AI report is put together to stir discontent within the ranks of the Nigerian military, and thus fast-track the long-obvious agenda of certain Western powers to jeopardise the war against Boko Haram as prelude to expediting nationwide system collapse. Uranta said “the AI report is mainly a compilation of unsubstantiated allegations, accentuated by dubious visuals of highly-suspect activities by Boko Haram terrorists designed to portray the Nigeria forces in bad light, and strewn with a hodge-podge of putative ‘inside stories’ which are unlikely to stand any standard verification tests”. He stated that NNSG strongly deplored the uncivil language and tone of AI’s Report which is irritatingly devoid of any diplomatese, any civility, or any respect, even as it seeks to dictate conclusions to Mr. President, even before his independent investigations are commenced. “This is utter rubbish that cannot be tolerated by any sovereign nation worth its name, and we are sure that President Buhari, who himself is a seasoned military general and politician, will never allow any foreign government, multilateral agency, multinational corporate organisation to command him or Nigeria to do anything just to suit their devious non-altruistic agenda,” he said. Calling on Nigerians to rally round the nation’s armed forces,Uranta said “our valiant Nigerian troops were our only buffer against Boko Haram’s seemingly-unstoppable surge southwards, even when they lacked the commensurate equipment to holistically do so, because our traditional ‘allies’ (that is, the USA, NATO etc.) chose not to help Nigeria, in our recent hour of need.” “Nigerians should be very wary lest these same our fighting Forces must are now, falsely, scandalised as the villains in this ongoing global military-industrial complex’ agenda, merely because some global players feel entitled to control Nigeria, on the debatable claim that they helped change the political status quo through the 2015 elections”, he added. 