 History was made in Lagos recently as Yudala, Nigeria’s first true composite retail chain, successfully launched its Offline Division with the official commissioning of two Experience Stores at Medical Road, Ikeja and The Palms, Lekki as well as two Smart stores on Idowu Martins Street, Victoria Island and Redemption Crescent, Gbagada. The well-attended event, which attracted Nigerians from all walks of life including bank CEOs, captains of industry, representatives of Corporate Nigeria and A-list artistes such as Iyanya and Naeto-C, saw huge crowds of excited shoppers taking advantage of the massive discounts and freebies on offer including free phones for every purchase above N20, 000. According to the Group Managing Director and CEO of Access Bank Plc., Herbert Wigwe who cut the tape to officially open Experience Store at The Palms, “Yudala is truly a retail revolution worth partnering with. I am delighted to be here today to witness the launch of Yudala. The ambience is world class which gives a lot of hope that young Nigerian entrepreneurs are redefining standards. There is a lot to be excited about especially when you consider the huge impact Yudala will have on small businesses and households in the informal sector. We must also not lose sight of the potential effects on the Nigerian economy in extension. At Access Bank, we are empowering and expanding the capacity of SMEs and the emergence of Yudala certainly provides many areas of partnership which will undoubtedly rub off positively on this crucial sector.” This line of thought was echoed by the Publisher, Vanguard Newspapers, Mr. Sam Amuka who cut the tape to usher in the guests and throngs of enthusiastic visitors at the Ikeja outlet. “I must commend the ingenious inspiration behind the Yudala dream. Nigeria is ripe for the revolution in retail business which Yudala offers. Indeed, this is an idea whose time has come. The combination of an online shopping platform with retail stores in various locations in the country is a game-changer and will definitely open up previously unexplored possibilities and convenience for many Nigerians. We must also not forget the potential effect on the Nigerian economy through the numerous employment opportunities this business model will create. Yudala is a business with an eye on the future and I dare-say, we must all embrace it,” Amuka enthused. According to the Management of the composite retail platform, Yudala Online is billed to go live in August, promising even bigger deals and unprecedented discounts at launch. Vice President, Yudala Retail Stores, Mr. Stanley Uzoechina, affirms that Yudala is the answer to the demands of the 21st Century, with its emphasis on skill and style. In his view, Yudala is a huge platform which re-defines the concept of offline retail. In his words: “First, we are bringing trust into the business space. When you buy Yudala, you are buying peace of mind as all our products are genuine and come directly from the Original Equipment Manufacturers. There is also the additional incentive of All Risks cover (except theft) from Sovereign Trust Insurance when you buy Yudala. We are the first business in which Management takes responsibility for every product bought from or delivered by us. This is Revolution. “Also, we have a road-map to reach the millions of unreached Nigerians in the hinterlands and rural areas. Management and Board has approved the launch of 10 additional stores nationwide before the end of August 2015 and by June 2017, 151 Yudala Stores will go live. This figure will increase to 512 Stores by June 2019. In no time, there will be a Yudala Store in virtually every local government council in the country.