The House of Representatives yesterday called for improved motivation and funding of the Nigerian armed forces. Its ad hoc committee on the screening of service chiefs made the recommendation in Abuja. The House also confirmed the appointments of the service chiefs to concur with a similar approval given by the Senate on Tuesday. The committee, which was chaired by Mr. Garba Dhatti, recommended Major-Gen. Abayomi Gabriel-Olonishakin for confirmation as Chief of Defence Staff; Major-Gen. Tukur Buratai as Chief of Army Staff; Rear Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe-Ibas as Chief of Naval Staff; and Air Vice Marshal Sadique Abubakar as the new Chief of Air Staff. Dhatti had criticised what he called “misleading” media report indicating that the National Assembly had confirmed the appointments of the service chiefs. He argued that the fact of the Senate confirming the appointments earlier did not mean that both chambers had confirmed the appointments as reported. “We have a bi-cameral legislature; and if you look at Section 18(1) of the Armed Forces Act, it is clearly stated that the appointment of the service chiefs will be confirmed by the National Assembly,” he added. Dhatti had also informed the House of the need to motivate the armed forces especially in these days of counter-insurgency operations. “The issue of motivation and adequate funding of the men and officers of the armed forces should be given attention,” he stated. Dhatti spoke just as the House passed a separate resolution asking the Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Solomon Arase, and Buratai to beef up security along the Anambra-Kogi boundaries to contain on-going clashes over boundary disputes. Communities in Aguleri (Anambra State) and their neighbours in Ibaji (Kogi State) have been fighting over disputed oil wells, claiming lives and property. The speaker of the House, Mr. Yakubu Dogara, had told members that he had been informed earlier on Thursday that the fighting had intensified in the last “three days.” A member from Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obiano, also recalled that in April this year, 30 people were killed as fighting spread. Obiano suggested that the IGP and Buratai should deploy more men in the area to contain the situation. Some members from Kogi State said the communities were living peacefully until oil was discovered in the area.    