 In a bid to rid Kaduna State Civil Service of ghost workers, block monumental leakages and fraud, Kaduna state governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai has ordered another round of biometric verification exercise of civil servants in the state. El-Rufai, who said the state government discovered N120 million fraud during the first phase of the exercise, emphasized that his administration is determined to block all leakages and end corruption in the state. “We are giving directive for the second round of verification exercise to ensure that we clean-up the civil service payroll system,” El-Rufai stated. The governor who disclosed this in a press statement issued Sunday by his Special Assistant, Media and Publicity, Samuel Aruwan, said the second phase of biometric verification of all civil servants in the state and local government councils will resume on Monday, 10 August, 2015. According to the statement, the Head of Service, Mrs. Alisabatu Dada Onazi has already sent a circular to all MDAs and local government councils detailing how the exercise will be conducted in the three senatorial zones of the state: Kaduna, Zaria and Kafanchan. The governor in the statement also directed that Permanent Secretaries/Overseers, Staff Officers and other directors are expected to identify their staff and their authentic APP, PSN Secret File Numbers and N Numbers for the purpose of the exercise. The statement however said for the purpose of documentation, every staff member is directed to present the original and photocopies of the following: Letter of first appointment, letter of present appointment and last promotion. It also stressed that every staff is required to present any of these four documents for identification: Nigerian National Identity Card, Nigerian National Voters Card (temporary voters card will be accepted), International or ECOWAS Passport; and Nigerian National Driver’s License. All civil servants and local government employees, the statement added, must physically present themselves for screening in this second round of the verification exercise as a pre-condition for the issuance of the July 2015 salary cheques.