 Some Nigerians have applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for setting up the Presidential Advisory Committee on Anti-Corruption, saying that it will boost the present administration’s crusade against the vice.
The respondents who spoke on Tuesday in Abuja, described the composition of membership of the committee as commendable.
An anti-corruption campaigner, Mr Adegoke Ayinuola, advised the government to explore the idea of “soft landing” for confessed looters of the treasury who agree to return what was left of their loot.
“I commend the idea of an anti-corruption committee to assist the government in fighting corruption and recovering looted government resources.
“I also commend the membership of the committee, particularly with Prof. Itse Sagay as Chairman, and Prof. Femi Odekunle as a member.
“These are tested professionals and academicians who do not enjoy membership of any political party. So, their impartiality can be guaranteed.
“I will advise the government to consider Sagay’s recent suggestion that looters should be encouraged to return their loot with the promise of a soft-landing,” he said. In his view, Mr Mimsa Shaibu, an Abuja-based lawyer, described the constitution of the committee as a vital tool to combat corruption.
“The constitution of this committee is particularly commendable and is being commended by most Nigerians.
“You know President Buhari is not a lawyer; this might have informed his decision to constitute the committee headed by Sagay, a professor of law and a Senior Advocate of Nigeria.
“If you look closely at membership of the committee, they are mostly lawyers and criminologists; this is a major boost to Buhari’s anti-corruption campaign,’’ he said.
Mr Mayowa Adelaja, a banker, said that the committee was not likely to be neutral considering its membership.
“The idea of such a committee is laudable; but if you look at its membership, particularly the chairman, there is not likely to be neutrality.”
Adelaja observed that Sagay had always criticised the actions and inactions of the PDP while overlooking the inadequacies of members of the APC.
“Does that imply that all members of the APC are saints?” he asked.
However, Mr Gbolohan Ogunmefu, an accountant, said there was no need for any committee on anti-corruption.
Instead, Ogunmefu advised the president to strengthen the anti-corruption agencies and make them independent.
“In my opinion, there is there was no need for any committee on anti-corruption. The president only needs to strengthen the anti-corruption agencies to perform their statutory functions optimally.
“Already, you can see that his personality as an incorruptible leader is showing positive signs in the economy. He only needs to consolidate on that by strengthening the institutions,” he said.
It would be recalled that Buhari constituted the committee on August 9, charged with the task to advise the president on how best to tackle corruption menace and recover looted funds.
The committee is composed of Prof. Femi Odekunle, a professor of Criminology of Ahmadu Bello University; Dr. Benedicta Daudu, an associate Professor of International Law, University of Jos; Prof. E. Alemika, Professor of Sociology, University of Jos; and Prof. Sadiq Radda, professor of Criminology, Bayero University, Kano.
Others are Hajia Hadiza Bala Usman, a civil society activist; and Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye of the Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, who will serve as the executive secretary of the committee.