  The police in Lagos have arrested two commercial motorcyclists (names withheld) for allegedly killing a police corporal and snatching his official rifle. The Lagos State Police Command’s spokeswoman, DSP Patricia Amadin, who confirmed the arrest on Monday, said that the police rifle had been recovered. Amadin said the incident happened on August 14 at 1st Avenue Junction, 4th Avenue, FESTAC Town. She explained that the police always patrolled the area but that on the fateful day, they were attacked by some motorcyclists numbering about 30. Amadin said that it was in the course of the attack that the corporal was killed. “At that point, the police patrol team sent a distress call to the FESTAC Police Division around 1a.m. on Friday that a patrol team along 4th Avenue had been attacked by about 30 motorcyclists. “The motorcyclists allegedly stabbed one of the policemen, one corporal Emmanuel Emefiele on the chest and he died on the spot. “The motorcyclists snatched the corporal’s official rifle and went away with it. The division then re-enforced and chased the motorcyclists and arrested two of the gang leaders. “The snatched rifle and blood stained knife used in stabbing the policeman to death were recovered in the home of one of the suspects,’’ Amadin told newsmen. The spokeswoman said that the corpse of the deceased policeman had been deposited in a public mortuary, while investigation continues. In a related development, Amadin said the police also arrested a member of a robbery gang terrorising the residents of Orile-Iganmu and recovered from him a locally made short gun. She said the arrest was effected on Sunday by the Orile Police Division. According to Amadin, the gang was about to carry out an operation at Odunade bus stop area of Orile when the police intercepted them. She said the police team who were on a routine patrol at about 1.15a.m. on Sunday saw the three man gang in a suspicious manner and stopped them. The spokeswoman said two of them escaped, while one was arrested with one locally made short gun and six lives cartridges. Amadin said they were on the trail of the fleeing members of the gang and that the arrested suspect was assisting the police in its investigation. 