By Louise Pike | Over the last 5 years the number of couples filing for a divorce in Tunisia has been increasing. The Tunisian Women Affairs and Family Ministry have blamed social crisis and disruptions for the sudden rise in divorce rates. According to research, 58% of divorces usually happen within the first 10 years of marriage. A shocking 82% of couples file for divorce within their first year of marriage, before the honeymoon period has even had chance to fade. This places Tunisia as one of the worst divorce centres in the Arab world. In addition, 27% of the divorcees are aged below 36 years old. It’s important to realise that it’s not only the adults that are affected. Approximately 66% of families that get divorced have at least one child. The divorce rates are having a huge impact on many families. These figures don’t look promising for those hoping for long lasting marriages. However, it’s important to remember that such research is not always very accurate. It’s extremely difficult to compare divorce rates across regions, as there are many external factors to consider such as the way each society is ran and shaped. In other Arab countries divorce is largely based upon religion. On the other hand, in Tunisia divorce is considered a legal matter. This can explain why Tunisia rates may seem higher than other Arab countries. Social factors have been highlighted as the key reason for many divorces in Tunisia. Some believe that the increasing rates are due to the rule that allows women to initiate the divorce procedure. The amount of women that file for divorce has increased to 50% compared to 6% in 1960. This may seem a large increase but you have to consider the changes in terms of women’s rights and equality that can hugely impact those rates. It’s likely that women are breaking away from the traditions, which forced them to remain in a marriage regardless of the conditions and their happiness. Al-Mondhir Jaafar, a social statistics expert has advised people against divorcing too early due to its impact on society and youths. Changes to the Family Code have helped curb divorce rates as they provide couples and families with 3 stages of reconciliation to help prevent a divorce. However, it’s certainly not all doom and gloom for those hoping to marry a Tunisian. There are millions of people enjoying long lasting, happy marriages. It’s also likely that those seeking divorces were too quick to jump into marriage or didn’t look for their partner in the right place. If you’re searching for a relationship or marriage with a Tunisian person, then ensure that you take your time to get to know them properly before you make any big commitments. Enjoy the friendship, dating and fun first and you will be firmly in the categories of those that enjoy a life-lasting marriage.