 EMEKA EJERE The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Ecobank Nigeria Ltd, Mr. Jibril Aku, will be the Guest Speaker at the September edition of Hallmark’s Public Policy Forum (PPF). A statement by the organisers of the series indicates that the lecture entitled ‘Regional Economic Integration and the Challenges of Sustainable Development’, which is to be chaired by a former CBN Deputy Governor, Dr Tunde Lemo, will hold on Tuesday, September 1, 2005 at the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Victoria Island, Lagos by 3.00 pm. “The theme is apt in the light of a growing need for Africa to take advantage of regional integration in tackling developmental challenges facing the continent in order to create a more conducive atmosphere for more viable economic activities,” the statement said. The Public Policy Forum is a civic outreach programme set up by Hallmark Newspaper to provide a platform for eminent Nigerian policy makers to articulate their views on diverse socio-political and economic issues. Through this medium, the forum has successfully enhanced civic awareness and education for millions of its subscribers and other Nigerians. Hallmark Public Policy Forum has become a highly prized national platform for outstanding public and corporate servants to engage in unfettered discourse. It usually attracts high profile personalities, corporate titans, members of the diplomatic community and intense mass media coverage. Past speakers on this platform in recent times include DG, SON, Dr Joseph Odumodu; Corps-Marshal and Chief Executive, Federal Road Safety Corps, Mr Osita Chidoka; CEO of NSE, Mr Oscar Onyema; former MD of AMCON, Mr. Mustafa Chike-Obi; former GMD, Diamond Bank, Dr Alex Otti and GMD, First Bank Limited, Mr Bisi Onasanya. Others are the immediate past governors of Lagos, Abia, Niger, Bauchi and Delta States. Aku studied Business Administration in Banking and Finance at the Ahmadu Bello University where he graduated with Honours in 1986. He has a 1993 diploma in Insurance from the Institute of Administration, ABU, Zaria and a Masters in Business Administration from the University of Benin. 