 The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, is set to dock more ex-governors, ministers and heads of parastatals in a comprehensive probe of the past administration. OBINNA EZUGWWU reports There are strong indications that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is planning a massive swoop against former governors and ministers who served under the administration of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, as well as heads of agencies and parastatals. This is even as President MuhammaduBuhari disclosed on Monday that his administration has identified banks, financial institutions and countries where payments for stolen Nigerian crude oil were deposited. Sources disclosed to Hallmark that the anti-graft agency will in the coming weeks make sweeping arrests of past governors, ministers and heads of agencies who have questionable records in line with Buhari’s quest to recover the country’s stolen monies. “The EFCC, I can assure you, is doing all it can to bring looters to book and recover looted funds. More arrests will be made in the coming weeks, we are determined to rid this country of corruption,” the source said.  “We are carrying out investigations now, Nigerians will soon see results.” Already, there are strong indications that the immediate past governors of Enugu and Ebonyi states; Barr Sullivan Chime and Martin Elechi would soon be guests at the EFCC office. Also on the watch list, Hallmark findings revealed are former Kano governor, AlhajiRabiu Musa Kwankwaso, his Bauchi counterpart, Isa Yuguda, former Niger governor, BabangidaAliyu as well as the current governor of Osun, RaufAregbesola. In Enugu, the anti-corruption agency has already invited two important figures in Chime’s administration, his former Chief of Staff, Mrs. IfeomaNwobodo and the state chairman of the People’s Democratic Party, Mr. IkejeAsogwa, who served as Managing Director of the state’s Housing Corporation; to answer questions on allegations of corruption leveled against them and the former governor. This follows a petition written by Barrister Ray Nnaji, a lawyer based in the state. Nnaji had in the petition accused the Chime led administration of misappropriating over N12 billion state funds and subsequent forgery of a certain 2012 Supplementary Appropriation Law to cover up their track. He also accused Chime of inflating cost of projects in the state through the Enugu State Project Development and Implementation Unit. In Ebonyi, the EFCC had last month quizzed Elechi over alleged corruption. It would be recalled that the former governor’s administration was marred by allegations of corruption towards its end of tenure which had prompted the EFCC to freeze the state’s local government joint account. Elechi was for the most of the later part of his administration accused of financial misconduct comprising alleged inflation of contracts and direction of state funds for personal use. This had prompted the state House of Assembly to make moves towards impeaching him, but all the moves failed to pull through. Although, Elechi unlike former Jigawa and Adamawa governors, SuleLamido and MurtalaNyako was not detained, Hallmark was informed that the last may not have been heard of his case. Speculations are also rife that the former Niger governor, Aliyu may be invited to answer questions concerning an alleged N2.9 billion obtained by him in the twilight of his administration. An allegation brought against him by the current government in the state. In Kano, Kwankwaso, it would be recalled had obtained a court injunction stopping the EFCC from arresting him when the anti-graft agency understandably made moves to apprehend him. However, he was said to still be on EFCC radar. Recent developments have also shown that the EFCC is monitoring events in Oshogbo, the Osun State capital following the allegations of misappropriation leveled against Governor Aregbesola, as contained in a petition written against him by Justice OloyedeFololahanmi of Osun State Judiciary. Justice Oloyede, had in a 39-page petition to the Osun State House of Assembly accused Aregbesola and his deputy, Mrs. TitilayoLaoye-Tomori of financial mismanagement of the state’s resources. Oloyede in the petition demanded that both the governor and the deputy be impeached for allegedly committing constitutional breaches. A seven-man committee headed by AkintudeAdegboye set up by the House of Assembly to look into the allegations completed its findings last week. Consequently, Justice Oloyede was said to have been invited by the EFCC to come and offer more explanations concerning the petition. She however, did not honour the invitation as she was said to have offered to help the EFCC anytime they come to Osun for the same purpose. Meanwhile, the EFCC has understandably concluded plans to probe the administration of Jonathan as promised by Buhari. This will include investigations into the financial transactions of Jonathan’s ministers and close aides. In this regard, the EFCC has recently revealed that it has traced banks used by some of these individuals to launder monies from illegal sales of crude oil. Hallmark learnt that chairman of the commission, Mr. Ibrahim Lamorde is already perfecting plans to move against identified culprits. Going by information from trusted sources, various heads of parastatals affected by the recent dissolution of the Governing Boards of all federal parastatals, agencies and institutions on the order of the President may not have seen the worst of their ordeal yet, as the EFCC is planning to probe them. The recent grilling of Mr. Paul Orhii by the commission is said to be the first of many to come. 