 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Staff Management Committee has said that efforts were ongoing to resolve the party’s internal crisis and reposition it. This is contained in a statement by the National Director of Administration of the party, Alhaji Gurama Bawa, in Abuja yesterday. It would be recalled that workers at the party’s secretariat had been in battle with management and had threatened to go on strike over unpaid salaries and entitlements. The statement said that management committee comprising directors, deputy directors and assistant directors at the party’s secretariat had waded into the matter with a view to finding an amicable solution to the problem. “To this effect, a meeting between the members of the staff welfare committee and the management staff was held on August 3, during which the staff were prevailed upon to stop all further adverse reactions. “The management committee has taken up the issues with the NWC and there are real prospects for an amicable solution,” it stated. It added that the staff management committee noted with regrets that the frustration arising from the sudden release of the reorganization circular inflamed passions. “We wish to reassure the teeming members, supporters and stakeholders of PDP that all efforts are being made to resolve this internal family problem and to ensure that the party comes out stronger. “All staff are enjoined to note that the survival of the party is critical. They should also be vigilant to ensure that those who do not mean well for the PDP do not capitalise on the administrative problems to ridicule the party,” it stressed. Meanwhile, no fewer than 1,000 members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Thursday defected to the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Anambra. The members took the action at the swearing-in of the newly elected members of APGA state executive committee in Awka. One of the defectors Mr Uchenna Umerie, a former lawmaker in the state, said he decided to dump the PDP for APGA because the administration of Governor Willie Obiano was doing well. He said that he could no longer cope with the protracted crisis in state chapter of the PDP. A PDP lawmaker in the state representing Ihiala constituency, Mr Tokas Ohazuluike said he and his supporters had no option than join hands with the APGA led administration to build the state. APGA National Chairman, Dr Victor Oye, welcomed the defectors and promised a level playing ground for everybody. He said that the formal swearing-in of the new leadership of the party was to give them legal backing to perform their function as contained in the party’s constitution. In his remark, Governor Willie Obiano described the event as ‘Pentecost’ and urged the new leadership to perform their duties with `boldness and conviction.’ He urged them to spread the message of unity and love to all members of the party and assured them of his support. The governor said the `good work’ of his government would make the next election a walkover for APGA in Anambra.