 OLUSESAN LAOYE
The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to prosecute all those found guilty of corruption. He said this at National Security Conference on: Community Partnership Approach to Internal Security and Crime Management in Abuja. “All found culpable of corruption should not only forfeit their assets but should go to jail. We are 100 per cent in support of your fight against corruption in the country,” he said. He called on the police and other security agencies to join in the crusade against corruption. Abubakar said the police needed to be repositioned for the 21st-century and to have their welfare reviewed. According to him, the traditional rulers had played vital roles in maintaining security in their various communities and are also ready to partner with the administration in the ongoing fight against corruption. He advocated the integration of traditional ways of policing into modern policing to achieve greater results in the fight against criminal activities in the society. He urged all Nigerians to close ranks with the police to ensure adequate security in the country. The Inspector-General of Police, Mr Solomon Arase, who delivered a welcome address at the event, said in considering the proposal for citizens-led policing frame “it is vital that the modalities for a sustainable funding strategy for the Nigeria Police be concurrently explored”. He said that modern policing was a cost-intensive venture and the benefits of a well-funded police force far outweigh the value of the budgetary investment. Arase, therefore, called for the resuscitation and passage of the Police Trust Fund Bill which had been pending in the National Assembly since 2012. “For it is only through adequate funding that the huge logistic demand of the police can be met and operational efficiency assured. “Through effective funding, the welfare needs of police personnel will be met and the challenge of corruption that has eroded professionalism and public respect for police officers will be addressed. “This rich assemblage of respected and vastly knowledgeable personalities is therefore encouraged to consider funding options for the police. “In so doing, consideration may be given to the resuscitation and passage of the Police Trust Fund Bill which has been pending in the National Assembly since 2012.” According to him, the bill seeks to tax corporate entities in order to complement the Federal Government in funding the police. He said the bill, if passed into law, would give effect to the concept of public-police partnership while addressing the funding challenges of the police on a sustainable basis.