The troops of 25 Task Force Brigade, Nigerian army, have discovered and destroyed another Improvised Explosives Device- (IED) making factory in Borno. This information is conveyed in a statement signed by Col. Sani Usman, Acting Director Army Public Relations and given to newsmen in Abuja on Friday. It stated that the factory was discovered at Miyati and Nyaleri villages in Damboa Local Government Area of Borno. “The troops of 25 Task Force Brigade Nigerian Army achieved an unprecedented feat today in the fight against the Boko Haram terrorists in its area of operations. “The Brigade, during a cordon and search operation at Sandia, Kokakowa and Nyaleri villages suspected to be Boko Haram enclaves early today, discovered and destroyed the factory. “It was situated along Maiduguri-Bulabulin-Damboa road, in Damboa Local Government Area of Borno State, Nigeria.’’ It added that three terrorists, comprising an “Ameer’’, a high contact and a foot soldier were also arrested. According to the statement, other items discovered were a Peugeot pick up van, foodstuffs, 10-KVA Lister generator, gas cylinders, borehole pumping machine and three bags of maize. Others are one bag of millet and 13 empty AGO jerry cans, amongst others. It stated that the operation was a joint effort between the Brigade and Nigerian Air Force which provided air cover and tracking. The statement added that the operation was part of the determined efforts by the military to root out terrorists in the general area and open more roads hitherto held by the terrorists for public usage. “It is also part of the renewed efforts and vigour on the part of our troops to meet up with the set deadline that has turned the tide and momentum of the battle against the Boko Haram terrorists in our country. “I am glad to say that the troops are on high morale and very excited with their accomplishment thus far.’’ It said the troops had also made substantial advancement to reclaim and destroy terrorists-held areas within Gamboru Ngala, Borno. (NAN)