Adebayo Obajemu
The name Golden Chance has become a brand of sorts among the masses, but that’s not the end of the story, as the speed with which the educated class has embraced the gaming company is amazing. From Okokomaiko to Lagos Island, from Oshogbo to Ilorin, the story is the same. What is the story? Old and young, men and women lounge around a wooden-constructed lotto box with the inscription: Golden Chance, in great numbers to participate in the game of the day. How did the company manage to garner such a huge following across the board?  Mr. Idowu Obasa, Chairman, attribute this ‘’to honesty, openness, transparency and the fact that we take our teeming customers along’’. This view was also echoed by the Managing Director, Mr. Arthur, who said ‘’the company is people’s brand, it goes beyond the directors and staff, it is the people who have appropriated Golden Chance on account of the confidence they have . If they have not been winning, they will stop patronizing us, it is to be candid a stock market for the masses, where with few investment one can yield good returns’’. The rapport between the company and its customers, agents and sub-agents across the board came to the fore some weeks ago when it rewarded its customers, a move that was billed to cut across the zones of the country It was reward galore a week ago as the company did the impossible by rewarding its loyal Agents and customers for their support over the months.The event which was witnessed by a large crowd had many of the sub-agents carting away ten Keke Marwa, ,deep freezers,flat screen television and cash. The event was chaired by the Chairman of the company Hon Obasa assisted by the indefatigable …y his Managing Director, Mr Arthur..Hon Obasa said the event was specifically designed to reward outstanding Agents for their outstanding performance and to encourage them to do more..He called on them to consolidate on their achievements so far .Also speaking at the occasion,the Marketing Manager of the Company Ms Adepeju Sanni Akinbiyi said the company has over the years maintained a solid partnership with its Agents and customers by keeping to its promise .He called on the agents to see their reward as a call to duty and for them to put in more efforts in their
business..Sub agents across several zones were awarded prizes..They came in from Sango, Epe ,Ikeja, Abeokuta, Surulere ,Okokomaiko and other zones. Juliet Okonkwo, a customer who witnessed the event told Hallmark that ‘’without mincing word, the company has tried, we have consistently observed in them honesty and transparency. Before I started patronizing them, I was a little bit skeptical about gaming business, but when I observed that many of my friends who had been customers had been winning , I changed my mind’’
Her view was corroborated by Tayo Arowolo, who said the company within a short space of time has been able to position itself in the forefront of lotto business. ‘’Though it is not possible to win all the time, but you can see the level of honesty in their processes’, he said.