 Africa investor (Ai), a leading international investment and communications group, has announced the shortlist for its prestigious Ai Institutional Investment and Capital Market Awards 2015, to be held on the 25th of September 2015 at the Thomson Reuters offices on 195 Broadway, and taking place during the UN General Assembly. Launched in 2007, and linked to the Africa investor Index Series, the Ai Institutional Investment and Capital Market Awards are based around the Ai Index Series and are the only pan-African Awards designed to recognise Africa’s best performing stock exchanges, listed companies, investment banks, research teams, regulators, socially responsible companies and sovereign wealth and pension fund investors. It is a uniquely African capital markets event. Commenting on the 2015 Awards shortlist, Hubert Danso, CEO of Africa investor said; “Africa’s capital markets remain some of the most attractive propositions for institutional investors globally. We are therefore delighted to showcase the institutions and CEOs from the Ai Index Series at the forefront of delivering world class returns. The stiff competition in our African and global pension and sovereign wealth fund categories is a testament to the high institutional interest and participation from owners of capital. We are therefore naturally very pleased with this year’s top ten shortlist and wish all nominees the best of luck.” Africa investor’s Ai100 and Ai40 Investors’ indices capture the top 40 and 100 of the largest and most liquid publicly-traded stocks across Africa, ranking them by market capitalisation and by liquidity, as measured by the average daily value traded in US dollars. Ai also produces the panAfrican Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indices, the Ai SRI 50 and Ai SRI 30, which were launched in 2006 in association with the United Nations. Africa investor has also recently added the Ai Infrastructure Index and the Ai Real Estate Index as investment tools for its institutional clients. Last year’s winners included the Egyptian Exchange; Standard Bank; Standard Chartered Bank; the Securities And Exchange Commission, Nigeria; Auerbach Grayson & Co.; Old Mutual; Seplat Petroleum; Zambia Sugar; Safaricom; Kenya Airways; Guaranty Trust Bank; the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority; AP3; Fundo Soberano de Angola and the Botswana Public Officers’ Pension Fund. 