 Chris Nnanna Emetoh The forty-nine ‎Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lawmakers in the Senate have declared their support for President Muhammadu Buhari. Speaking at a press conference at the National Assembly complex in Abuja yesterday, the Senate Minority Whip, Godswill Akpabio, joined 48 of his PDP colleagues to express their determination to support the president. However, they lamented that PDP members were being targeted in the anti-corruption crusade of the federal government. “The PDP senate caucus reiterates its support to President, Muhammadu Buhari and his quest to bring about a greater Nigeria. “The PDP senate caucus, despite its formidable strength, has resolved to offer only credible opposition that would lead to the building of a better Nigeria. The caucus will give him all the needed support to ensure his success as president.” “But the PDP senate caucus notes the crusade against corruption undertaken by the APC-led federal government and hereby declares her support to rid Nigeria of corruption. The caucus is however not happy with the current trend that seems to suggest that the war against corruption is selective and targeted at PDP stalwarts and states. “The current war lacks transparency, fairness to all and appears to be aimed at political adversaries. It is on this ground that we condemn in particular what is happening in Akwa Ibom, Rivers and Abia states where election umpires are daily arrested, their families and associates hounded, and judicial officers involved in election tribunals intimidated and questioned using trumped up petitions bordering on corruption. “Yet, these officials were part of the 2015 elections that produced President Buhari, an election adjudged to be generally free and fair by the international community.” Akpabio also alleged that the Department of State Service (DSS) was being used to wreck havoc on PDP-controlled states. “The PDP senate caucus is worried, alarmed and shocked by the recent development in our polity where the DSS is now involved in electoral matters,” he said. “A situation where officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Abia States (all PDP states) are daily being arrested, detained and questioned on politically motivated corruption allegations is worrisome and spells doom for our democracy unless the trend is reversed. “Reports reaching the caucus have it that INEC officials are being forced by the DSS to produce falsified documents to support APC candidates’ cases before the tribunals. “This is abominable and unacceptable. Mr President and all well-meaning Nigerians must intervene to preserve the independence of the tribunals and that of INEC.‎” While reiterating the pledge of the PDP to provide constructive opposition to the APC government, Akpabio urged the president to treat all Nigerians equally. 