 .Critics insist on Obasanjo’s inclusion  OLUSESAN LAOYE
President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, to convene an investigative committee on the procurement of hardware and munition in the armed forces from 2007 to now. According to the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the mandate of the investigative committee is to identify irregularities and make recommendations for streamlining the procurement process in the armed forces. “Accordingly, the national security adviser has constituted the investigative committee as follows: AVM J.O.N. Ode (retd), President; R/Adm. J.A. Aikhomu (retd); R/Adm E. Ogbor (retd); Brig Gen L. Adekagun (retd); Brig Gen M. Aminun-Kano (retd); Brig Gen N. Rimtip (retd); Cdre T.D. Ikoli; Air Cdr Mohammed (retd); Air Cdre I. Shafi’I; Col A.A. Ariyibi; Group Captain C.A. Oriaku (retd); Mr. I. Magu (EFCC); Brig Gen Y.I. Shalangwa (Secretary),” Adesina’s statement read. “The establishment of the investigative committee is in keeping with President Buhari’s determination to stamp out corruption and irregularities in Nigeria’s public service. “It comes against the background of the myriad of challenges that the Nigerian armed forces have faced in the course of the ongoing counter-insurgency operations in the northeast, including the apparent deficit in military platforms with its attendant negative effects of troops’ morale. “The committee will specifically investigate allegations of non-adherence to correct equipment procurement procedures and the exclusion of relevant logistics branches from arms procurement under past administrations, which, very often resulted in the acquisition of sub-standard and unserviceable equipment.” Nigeria’s war against Boko Haram has been dogged, in part, by insinuations that soldiers are left with obsolete arms against the more sophisticated ones used by their enemies, amid claims of mismanagement of funds meant for equipping the military. Last month, the Department of State Services (DSS) laid a siege on the residences of Sambo Dasuki, former national security adviser, and afterwards said it had found items such as seven high-calibre rifles (high assault weapons), several magazines, military-related gears, and 12 new vehicles (out of which five were bullet proofs). The agency subsequently launched investigations into Dasuki’s bank dealings in the ongoing N40 billion security funds probe. Reacting, a PDP chieftain in Oyo State, Prince Abimbola Makanjuola, welcomed the development, insisting that Jonathan alone should not be probed and that previous governments before him should as well be probed. National President of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), Dr Fredrick Fasheun, stated that probing Jonathan alone amounts to witch-hunting, adding that those that have ruled the country including governors should be probed. Senator Lekan Balogun, a chieftain of the PDP and member of the Board of Trustees of the party, stated that though there is nothing bad in the probe, probing previous governments is diversionary. He stressed that president Buhari should get up with governance rather than concentrating on probing. 