The six Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives members from Ekiti State have expressed their confidence in the leadership of the Chief Idowu Faleye led State Exco of the party.
The House of Representatives members, Hon Kehinde Agboola (Ekiti North I), Hon Thaddeus Aina (Ekiti North II), Hon Ayo Oladimeji (Ekiti Central I), Hon Olamide Oni (Ekiti Central II), Hon Segun Adekola (Ekiti South I) and Hon Akin Awodumila (Ekiti South II) also commended the state Governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose for his avowed loyalty and commitment to the party.
The statement made available to journalists on Tuesday, read; “We have followed with keen interest, the anti-party activities of a few members of the State Executive Council of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State and we wish to state that anyone, or group working against the Chief Idowu Faleye-led Exco in the State do not enjoy our support.
“We wish to state categorically that there is no faction in Ekiti State PDP and the recognised chairman is Chief Idowu Faleye.
“We reiterate our confidence in the leadership of Chief Idowu Faleye as the Chairman of our party in Ekiti State, and pledge to continue to support the State Exco led by him.
“Most importantly, we view strongly that those leading the purported faction are only interested in polarizing the party, as being sponsored by the opposition party in the State and we frown at any
attempt by any individual or group to cause disaffection in the party.
“It is our opinion that activities and actions of the purported faction in the last few weeks are no doubt against the interests and positions of the party and we demand that disciplinary action(s) be
taken against them.
“We wish to commend the State Governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose for his avowed loyalty and commitment to the party and we pray that the Almighty God will continue to strengthen him.
“We remain solidly behind the governor as he continues his concerted efforts to reposition the PDP both in Ekiti State, The South-West and the entire country.
“To us, Governor Ayodele Fayose is the Rock on which a new PDP will be built and we wish to state that we are with him 100 percent.
Lastly, it is our considered opinion that discipline must be maintained in the party, and for this, anyone involved in activities inimical to the party must be sanctioned so as to serve as deterrent
to others.”