 Ekiti State governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose has said that his government was destroying the legacies of huge debt, unpaid salaries, white elephant projects, bad governance and corruption left behind by the All Progressives Congress (APC) government of Dr. Kayode Fayemi, declaring that; “Never again shall Ekiti be governed by those who will borrow billions of naira to plant flowers and create comfort for themselves alone.” Governor Fayose, who was reacting to Fayemi’s interview in some newspapers in which he said that “his legacy was being destroyed”, said no responsible government will sustain a legacy of over N86 billion debt that was incurred on projects with no direct bearing on the welfare of the people. In a statement issued on Thursday, by his Special Assistant on Public Communications and New Media, Lere Olayinka, Fayose said it was necessary for Fayemi’s negative legacies to be destroyed, adding that; “Even in the APC, his legacy of betrayal of Senator Bola Tinubu, the man who made him governor is being destroyed.” “Today, Fayemi has been ostracized by those who assisted him to office because he has betrayed all of them, including Tinubu. Does he then wants us to sustain the legacy of serial betrayal of his benefactors? “If he served Ekiti and its people well, why was it that he was roundly defeated in all the 16 local councils in the state in the June 21, 2014 governorship election and his party was also defeated 16-0 in the Presidential, National Assembly and House of Assembly elections? “Even his own party men described his electoral defeat as the worst in Nigeria,” he said. The governor, who said it was shameful that Fayemi, who left two months’ salary and four months cooperative and unions deductions from workers salary, as well as pensioners pensions and gratuities unpaid could be talking about his legacies being destroyed, asked; “Did Fayemi leave behind any positive legacy in Ekiti?” He said; “When Fayemi became governor, he choose to close down two universities established by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government of Segun Oni and abandoned the Oba Adejugbe General Hospital, Ado-Ekiti, claiming that the state could not fund more than one university. “The same Fayemi, who said Ekiti had no money to fund more than one university preferred to take N25 billion bond to plant flowers that never germinated up till now and build a new governor’s lodge, civic centre, pavilion and execute other irrelevant projects. “Furniture alone, in the N3.3bn governor’s lodge that he built for himself and his wife cost N604.9 million and Fayemi wants such legacy of profligacy to be sustained in Ekiti? We are sorry to tell him that we won’t sustain such legacy of waste. “Even vehicles bought for traditional rulers and political appointees, his government did not pay and uncompleted Oba Adejugbe General Hospital and State Pavilion were commissioned with fanfare. “Today, Ekiti State is under the yoke of debt, courtesy of Fayemi’s mismanagement of the state resources and what we are destroying are those legacies of mis-governance he left behind. “One bad news that we must however tell Fayemi is that; we won’t only destroy his legacy of mis-governance and betrayal in Ekiti, we will also make sure that economic devourers like him will never taste power in the state.”