Immediate past governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babatunde Fashola is not finding life outside office easy. There appears to be an orchestrated plot to smear his image and portray him as corrupt before the eyes of the new federal administration. But Fashola will not go down without a whimper. EZUGWU OBINNA reports The former governor of Lagos State, Babatunde Fashola, SAN, is a man in the middle of a raging storm. The senior advocate who only few months ago was considered by many as one of the best governors in the country during his time has suddenly turned into a huge scandal battling to save his face and career amidst several allegations of corruption preferred against him. The unfolding story is being told from two perspectives; one has it that Fashola’s troubles are instigated by his predecessor and the All Progressives Congress (APC) leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu who, Hallmark learnt, wants him dragged to his knees over perceived insubordination. Tinubu for instance, is said to be upset over the fact that Fashola had not visited to thank him since he left office on May 29th. A source close to the former governor explained however, that Tinubu feels threatened by Fashola’s soaring reputation among South Westerners and his approval ratings which cuts across. According to the source who craved anonymity, “power is jealous, I have a feeling that he (Tinubu) does not want anyone who will rival or curtail his influence in the South West.” It had also been revealed that the acclaimed APC national leader does not want Fashola who had been variously tipped for the post of Chief of Staff, Attorney General or minister of works in the yet to be formed cabinet of President Muhammadu Buhari to take any of those positions. The alleged fear of Tinubu is that Fashola occupying such office at the federal level might project him to be powerful to control. Beyond this, there is also speculation that Fashola’s reputation, if allowed to build may throw him up as a potential presidential candidate in the future, a scenario his adversary’s camp would not be comfortable with. The above sentiment was reinforced by no other person than Fashola himself, who in a statement indirectly blamed his troubles on those who are opposed to seeing him take ministerial appointment. He said he was not looking for a job and accused those calling on the EFCC to investigate him of being paid agents. “In case they are not aware, I am not looking for a job. I expect them to know that allegations of wrongdoing are not resolved without evidence, neither are they resolved in press conferences. “I served my state, and by extension my country for twelve and half years and I did so with my heart. I am taking the rest I believe I have earned. For those who wish to throw mud at me, they should look at their hands,” Fashola said in his statement on August 13. Hallmark further gathered that Tinubu’s camp, including the current governor of the state, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, were consequently said to have been affronted by this seemingly apparent insinuations by Fashola that it is those opposed to his ministerial consideration that were sponsoring individuals raising corruption allegations against him, and have resolved to teach him a lesson. Although the new governor’s spokesperson denied his involvement in any allegations against Fashola, one of the noticeable moves made by them in this regard was to reportedly remove Fashola’s name on the list of former Lagos governors in the state’s official website only to put it back casually at the bottom end of the list, without even bothering to add dates. Again, feelers have also emerged that there are ongoing plans by the new government to prosecute those involved in alleged hike of contract figures during the immediate past administration, a move supposedly targeted at Fashola. While there had been reported moves by important figures in the APC Lagos to nip the crisis in the bud, Tinubu’s camp was said to have resolved to fight on and Fashola who understandably also has his own loyalists is not backing down, at least to preserve his integrity in view of his ministerial consideration. “It is a difficult situation really,” an APC source told Hallmark. “There is a standoff between the two former governors, but it will not affect the party, the party has the capacity to resolve whatever issues within and move on. I can inform you that moves are being made in this regard. The party plans to convene an emergency state caucus meeting tomorrow (today) during which the issues would be looked into,” the source assured. There is also a second perspective to Fashola’s troubles however. Though the former governor had largely created an impression of performance, the allegations of fraud being leveled, and instances cited against him in that regard gives the impression that it may not just have been about Tinubu and his alleged quest to clip Fashola’s wings. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has for instance, while denying any involvement in the internal rift between the two past governors, alleged that Fashola collected billions of naira in SURE P funds that were not accounted for. In a statement signed by its spokesperson in Lagos, Mr. Gani Toafeek, the PDP raised many cases of corruption against Fashola and called on the Ambode’s administration to probe him. “Several times during his administration, we had shouted that the governor was running a propagandist government and that the state was being plunged into avoidable local and foreign debts. With over N27bn monthly internally generated revenue, the state does not need to borrow to carry out projects,” the party said. “Under Fashola, the SURE-P funds well over N32bn meant for the state could not reflect in any projects and was not accounted for. The local and foreign debts of about N1trn are there for Lagosians to pay through over-taxation. “The PDP has consequently supported and charged Ambode to probe his predecessor. The incumbent governor must speak out now! Anything short of a categorical statement as to whether Fashola is clean or not is a disservice to the state. Lagosians want to know what the new occupier of the office met, especially the actual amount of loan collected.” Again when last weekend one IT firm revealed that Fashola approved a contract of N78 million from the state treasury for an upgrade of his personal website, it had appeared outrageous, if not completely untrue to many, because of his perceived integrity. And when the Coalition Against Corrupt Leaders (CACOL) based on the allegation, called on the EFCC to investigate him, it may have appeared to some as witch-hunt only for Fashola himself to admit it while proffering explanations as to how the money was spent. “It was for these services that the contract was issued for N78 million, which the Lagos State procurement agency gave a No Objection based on the advice of the Ministry of Science and Technology, who are the government adviser on ICT matters,” Fashola said. “It is regrettable that the summary of the content has been deliberately distorted to misinform the public. This particular website came into being as a result of decision I made to make my telephone number public for several thousands of people seeking to reach me daily. “The website that is now under attack helped me to do my job and to respond to criticisms and the contract was issued to run till my last day in office.” In all these nonetheless, Fashola’s reputation appears to be the greatest victim, and as many have begun to speculate, his ministerial consideration may be in doubt.  