 SEGUN ADEYEMI, Osogbo Non-indigenes and students of tertiary institutions in Ile-Ife, Osun State have started migrating from the town until the final Oro festival which will precede the official announcement of the death of the late Ooni of Ife, Oba Okunade Sijuade slated for today are concluded. When Hallmark visited the town yesterday, terrified residents, especially non-indigenes were seen moving out until the burial rites for the late monarch are concluded. A traveller at the Ilesa Motor Park at Mayfair area of the town expressed fear, saying, “If this people (Oro cult members) can come out and warned people against coming out on Wednesday, then it shows how serious the rituals can be. So, it’s better I leave the town until the rituals are completed.” Another traveller, a non-indigene who simply identified himself as James said, “I am worried that in this era, some people are still primitive and values ritual practices”. Also, a student of The Polytechnic, Ife, situated at the Parakin area was also seen carrying a bag to the park. The student who identified herself as Linda Afam, entertained fear, saying “My mother called me to come home because of the rituals they want to perform tomorrow (today). I could stay indoors but my parents insisted I should come to Lagos, insisting it is safer. I am afraid too.” Some parents were sighted on the campus of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) on Tuesday apparently to take their wards home. At the park around the Mozambique and Angola Halls of the school, parents were seen discussing with some students while some parents drove home with their wards. Meanwhile, the Dean of Students’ Affairs of OAU has placed a curfew on its students asking them to stay indoors throughout the duration of the burial rites. This directive was contained in a release issued and signed by the Acting Dean, Dr. Mrs. L. M. Durosinmi on Tuesday. “This is to inform the generality of students that there shall be a curfew in Ile-Ife, on Wednesday, 12th of August, 2015 from 9am to 4pm and from 11pm till dawn. “Students are therefore strongly advised to stay on campus and those off-campus should remain indoors. “The Division of the Students’ Affairs counts on the maturity and sense of responsibility of Great Ife students and appeals to all students to comply with the information and continue to keep the peace.” Hallmark gathered that classes and continuous assessment tests fixed for the day did not hold. Some students also expressed their desires to leave Ife for the period of the Oro festival. A part one student of English Department of OAU, Lawrita Chinoyerem, disclosed that she would be travelling to stay with her parents until the burial ends. Investigation by our correspondent revealed that some parents have phoned their wards asking them to visit home. It would be recalled that the Awara of Iwara-Ife, Oba Layi Adereti, had on Monday, while speaking on the preparedness for the burial of the monarch, said the Oro festival is the final rite of passage for the Ooni. He said that the hours of 9am and 4pm today have been fixed for the final pronouncement of the demise of the Ooni. Oba Adereti who is also the head of Oro Cult in Ile-Ife said that all residents of the ancient town whether male or female should remain indoor during the Oro rite. He declared that after the Oro rite and proclamation, subsequent rites would follow, appealing to all residents to heed to the restriction order from the palace. The monarch added that though only female are normally barred when Oro festival is being carried out but this time around, it has no respect for any gender. 