The President, Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria (CBCN), Archbishop Ignatius Kaigama, has said that the on-going war against corruption initiated by President Muhammadu Buhari remained crucial to the development of the country. Kaigama, who is the Catholic Archbishop of Jos, said this in Jos, yesterday. The cleric said the “hydra-headed virus called corruption” had done a lot of harm to the country and messed up the lives of most Nigerians. According to Kaigama, the church has thrown its weight behind the fight against corruption, and anyone found guilty should be brought to the “altar’’ of justice. “Corruption has done us very deadly harm as a nation, and has messed up the lives of most Nigerians. The president must win the war against corruption just as he is doing with terrorism. “This can only be, if we all vow to be corruption-free and those who have illegally enriched themselves in the past, make comprehensive restitution. “Every corrupt Nigerian, no matter how high or influential, and no matter how long the act was perpetrated, should be brought to justice. “We support this current wave against this deadly disease, because it will no doubt be a deterrent to those contemplating to corruptly enrich themselves,” Kaigama said. The cleric admonished Catholics and indeed all Nigerians to desist from indulging in corrupt acts, as such would only lead to retrogression as against the absolute yarn for progress. He further urged public office holders to serve with integrity and selflessness and thrive for the growth and development of the country. “I look forward to my usual interaction with Catholics in high positions in government, to discuss with them on how they can serve with integrity and selflessness,” he added. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Computer Society (NCS) has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing its member, Mr Babachir Lawal, as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). This is contained in a statement issued by NCS President, Prof. Adesola Aderounmu, in Lagos, yesterday. It stated that Lawal, an engineer, was a committed member of the society and a professional to the core. The statement stated that that SGF had immense experience in the private and public sectors before he established his own consulting firm in 1990. Buhari on August 27 appointed Lawal as the SGF and he was sworn in on August 31. “His appointment is a welcome one for the NCS and is in furtherance of our belief that the much awaited change is here. The appointment has also shown that the president is listening. “This is taking into consideration that the appointment came on the heels of our call to the president to consider professionals of untainted integrity in appointments to his cabinet,’’ the statement stated. It noted that the NCS as the body of all Information Technology (IT) professionals and interest groups in Nigeria firmly believed that Lawal’s appointment would facilitate the realisation of a truly digital society. The statement added that the digital society would be one where government business would be largely driven by ICT as is the global practice. “We wish to reiterate our readiness as a group to collaborate with government at all levels in all areas of IT for developmental purposes. “We are also willing to collaborate in confronting some of the nation’s challenges especially as it relates to security. We look forward to the appointment of one of our member as the Minister of Communication Technology.”