  CHRIS EMETOH, Abuja Contrary to insinuations in some quarters, the Senate Unity Forum (SUF) on Wednesday said it is going ahead with its suit on the forgery of the Senate Standing Orders against Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and his deputy, Ike Ekweremadu. Other defendants are the Clerk of the National Assembly, the Clerk of the Senate, the Senate, and the National Assembly. Senators Suleiman Hunkuyi, Kabir Garba Marafa, Abu Ibrahim, Robert Ajayi Boroffice and Gbenga Ashafa insisted that they are not going back on their case before the Federal High Court, Abuja. The forum made the clarifications in a statement issued by their counsel, Mamman Mike Osuman (SAN), against the backdrop of reports that the SUF has withdrawn its suit (FHC/ABJ/CS/651/2015) on the forgery of the purported Senate Standing Orders 2015. There were reports on Tuesday that Justice Ademola Adeniyi of the Federal High Court struck out the suit by the five Senators on behalf of the Senate Unity Forum (SUF). The counsel to the SUF, Mamman Mike Osuman (SAN) said it was “erroneous and mischievous” to claim that the suit by the five Senators had been withdrawn. He disclosed that it was the first suit (FHC/ABJ/CS/647/2015) filed by Senator Anthony Adeniyi, who served in the 7th Senate that was withdrawn to avoid abuse of court process. “Despite the legal possibility that the suit discontinued by Sen. Anthony Adeniyi could be re-filed, the media should have been more specific about the case withdrawn. “Contrary to the misinformation put out there, we hereby confirm the originating summons in suit no: FHC/ABJ/CS/651/2015 filed at the instance of the above-named Senators against Saraki, Ekweremadu and the National Assembly. “The above particularized suit differs in contents from that of Sen. Adeniyi as can be distilled from their respective grounds, reliefs sought, affidavit evidence,parties and declarations sought.” Osuman insisted that the prayers, sought by the five Senators in the originating summons, were still subsisting. 