President Muhammadu Buhari has assured investors in France and other parts of the globe of Nigeria’s commitment to provide a suitable business climate that would boost economic activities as well as create jobs for Nigerian youths.
The president said his decision to approach the challenge of insecurity headlong in the early days of his government is to ensure the safety of all citizens and the investment of local and foreign investors.
Addressing a gathering of investors at the Nigerian-France presidential business forum at the headquarters of the French Business Confederation (MEDEF) in Paris, Buhari recalled the long standing economic ties between the two countries which dates back as far as 1902 when the CFO set up a training programme in Lagos State.
He assured that his government will rebuild Nigeria into a competitive, virile, productive economy based on excellence, integrity, transparency, accountability and respect for the rule of law. “It is a positive development that today Nigeria is the largest trading partner with France in Africa. But opportunities abound to greatly increase the current $5 billion annual trade volume and I fully agree with President Hollande when he declared in February, 2014 in Abuja that trade volume between both countries should double in four years”, he said.
According to him, trade expansion is to cover critical areas, such as agriculture, energy, automobile and skill development, adding that “opportunities abound to greatly increase the $5 billion annual trade volume between the two countries”.
He lauded Hollande’s commitment to redouble the number, stating that Nigeria is now at a new dawn to chart and reposition its destiny for greatness. “We are resolved and firmly determined to consolidate on industrializing Nigeria and diversifying its economy into sectors such as agro-processing, mining, manufacturing, petro-chemicals, food processing and textiles”, he said.
Nigeria has what it takes to make a break-through and there is more to Nigeria than oil. It is a blessed land rich in agricultural and mineral resources coupled with skilled and low-cost labour, large market, robust and competitive private sector, the president added.
Earlier in his remarks, Gattaz indicated the interest of French businessmen to invest in the Nigerian economy, being the biggest in Africa.
Assuring the president of the support of French businessmen who he will lead to Nigeria in a few weeks time, Gattaz noted that the electoral victory of President Buhari was a launching pad for Nigeria to become the largest in democracy, demography and development.