The All Progressives Congress (APC) will hold the rescheduled Bayelsa gubernatorial primaries on Tuesday at the Samson Siasia Stadium, Yenogoa, under tight security The national chairman of the party, John Odigie-Oyegun, briefing newsmen after the meeting of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) and members of the committee that conducted the primaries in Bayelsa, said the need to provide a level playing ground for all the aspirants informed the party’s decision to call for fresh primaries. “The NWC sees it as a duty to provide a level playing ground for all those who aspire to offices in this party, unfortunately, Bayelsa State at Yenogoa we had serious security challenges and so the process could not meet the standards which this party has set for itself and so we had no alternative but to stop the process by ensuring that the chairman of the panel was effectively moved out of the venue with the help of security agencies. “We decided thereafter that there should be proper, fresh primaries, so today the party decided, we have written to INEC appropriately to conduct fresh primaries for the Bayelsa governorship election beginning tomorrow. “We are getting in touch with the inspector general of police and all the other security agencies to please assist us in ensuring effective security”, Oyegun said On his part, chairman of committee, Adams Oshiomhole, who stormed the party secretariat at about 1:30p.m in the company of heavily armed security men due to the alleged report of a planned attack by those who were not disposed to his role in the primaries, confirmed to newsmen that the primaries was marred by violence. “I really don’t want to go back to those issues. These are not issues that transpired in a bedroom, I do hope that some day we get to a point where even the media must defend the democratic space,” he said. Narrating his experience at the venue of the botched primaries, Oshiomhole said he has independent reports that “gun shots were being fired” while AK 47 rifles were recovered from two of those that disrupted the exercise. “These are not secrets that transpired, I am not the issue and I don’t want to be the issue, there are issues that are important to me, this one I didn’t go there as a governor, I went there as a party member on a national assignment by the party and it is a great honour. “I have done that job along with my colleagues to the best of my ability and I have reported with the fear of God the truth as I know it and this has been signed by every member, other members of the committee and we have forwarded the report,” Oshiomhole said.  One week to the submission of candidates’ names by various political parties jostling for the governorship position in Bayelsa State, the crisis rocking the APC in the state has deepened further as the party is still battling with the intrigues surrounding the choice of its candidate. INEC had given October 7 as deadline for the submission of list of candidates for Bayelsa governorship election.