Benyfil Design, a web development company located in Nigeria and specialize in creating attractive and effective yet affordable websites that are visually engaging as well as being search engine friendly. We are poised for designing state of the art website that meet with modern and contemporary designs. Job title: Marketer Location: Lagos
Job type: Part time Nature of the Job As a part time job, appointed personnel’s would be required to engage prospective clients, either through phone calls or visitations (occasionally) by convincing and making them see the need to own a website for their companies/business. On a daily basis, mobile contacts of prospective clients would be given to the BDO for calls and follow-up. Qualifications: Minimum of OND. Ability to speak English fluently. Remuneration:
Being a part time job, the appointment would be a commission base. For every business brought in and successful engagement of prospective clients, the BDO would be entitled to 30% of the project cost. However, a monthly allowance of N10,000 – N15,000.00 would be paid.
Application closing date
5th May, 2015
Method of application
Interested and qualified candidates should send their applications and CV’s to: bdo@benyfildesign.com   Rosabon Financial Services Limited is the leading Financial Intermediary and Equipment Leasing firm in Nigeria, a subsidiary of Concept Group Nigeria. Licensed by the CBN ON April 22, 1993, we have built a reputation for passionately and professionally delivering innovative and superior financial services to our growing clientele.
We are recruiting to fill the position of:
Job title: Independent marketing executive
Location: Lagos
Job description:
We are a prominent Financial Institution located on the mainland in Lagos. With over 20 years in business, we continue to experience growth with results driven strategies and a culture of innovation and continuous improvement. We are currently seeking sales executives that espouse these qualities to join our dynamic sales team in our Lagos office.
Requirements:
The ideal candidate MUST have the following qualifications; University Graduate with at least 2 years practical sales experience. Good Communication skills (written and verbal) Great Persuasion Skills Desire to learn about the Financial Industry Team Player Great Negotiation Skills Must be Results Driven Must have passion for sales and marketing. Ready to resume work as soon as possible Remuneration:
Compensation- A Combination of competitive base pay plus commission
Method of application 
Interested candidates should please forward their updated CV to: y.erhiahwe@rosabon-finance.com     Mutual Benefits Assurance Plc, has evolved into a conglomerate consisting of value-adding companies with diverse interests in various sectors of the Nigerian economy through investments, strategic alliances and partnerships. Today, MUTUAL is a leading brand in the Nigerian Insurance industry with over 5,000 staff in its employment.
We are recruiting to fill the below position:
Job title: Marketing executive
Location: Lagos
Job description: A position of marketing executives available for any interested applicate in the above company. Requirement Applicant must have minimum of HND in any field. Application closing date
11th May, 2015
Method of application:
Interested and qualified candidates should send their applications to: samuel.echi@mbaplc.com   Nation delivery Nigeria Limited is Africa’s market leader in global express, Logistics. Nation delivery Nigeria Ltd , is a company registered as a logistic under cooperate affair Commission RC 1038133 since 2012 and infrastructure with the introduction of online tracking ensuring that we can continue to handle your parcels with greater speed precision, and bring cheap parcel delivery to the masses, so we are best placed to meet the rapid growth in demand within the express parcels market.
We are a Lagos based socially responsible firm operating in service industry rendering essential services to wide range businesses.
We are presently seeking to expand and consolidate in this regard. Thus, we are recruiting to fill the position of:
Job title: Clients service representative
Location: Lagos
Job description: Clients Service Representatives are needed to promote a courier services. To assist in promotion and marketing of our services to target clients. Working closely with Chief Executive Officer in identifying prospective clients. Developing marketing strategies that would enable our company access our target clients. Generate and follow up on leads and prospects Undertaking presentations on business proposals for prospective and existing clients where necessary . Will set up in-person appointments, correspondence and phone contacts with prospects Requirements and qualifications: OND in Marketing or any other relevant course. Previous marketing experience is of advantage but NOT compulsory Strong relationship building skills and entrepreneur drive Strong communication skills (oral and written), have passion for marketing, be confident, intelligent and smart. Application closing date:
5th June, 2015.
How to apply:
Interested and qualified candidates should send their applications and CV’s to: info@nationdelivery.com   Askhom Nigeria Limited – Our Client, a reputable firm in hospitality industry, requires the service of competent and qualified applicant to fill the position below:
Job title: Hotel manager
Location: Lagos
Job summary: Successful applicant will be responsible for managing employees and for planning, marketing, coordinating and administering services such as catering and accommodation facilities of the hotel. Responsibilities: Recruiting, training and supervising staff Managing budgets Maintaining statistical and financial records Planning maintenance work, events and room bookings Ensuring compliance with health and safety legislation and licensing laws Requirements: Minimum of first degree in Hotel Management or any relevant discipline. 5 years cognate experience. Application closing date
30th May, 2015.
How to apply:
Interested and qualified candidates should send their applications and CV’s to: askhom@askhomnigerialimited.com   A fast growing Mortgage Bank is looking for candidates who are seasoned and articulate top professional that can perform efficiently under pressure, who are passionately driven by Purpose and target with less supervision and seeking to build a career in a reputable Mortgage Bank, If you are, your service is needed for immediate employment:
Job title: Executive assistant to the MD/CEO
Location: Lagos
Job Level: Deputy Manager
Primary Relationships Report to: The Chief Executive Officer
Principal responsibilities: The CEO’s Executive Assistant will make an important Contribution to achieving strategic objectives. The role will include, but not be limited to the following responsibilities and accountabilities: Assist the CEO as directed in managing relationships with key stakeholders such as financial services providers, Industry associations, regulators (especially the CBN, NDIC), and other relevant organizations. Qualification and experience: Degree in English, Social Sciences, Economics, Finance, Marketing or such related field from a reputable institution. Demonstrable experience of working as an Executive Assistant at Executive Board level, supporting a senior Director, Chief Executive Officer or Executive Chairman. A minimum of 2 years of experience, or other demonstrated capacity to deliver at this level. Experience developing and implementing Standard Operating Procedures. Some experience in strategic planning. Prior experience working in structured corporate environment. Knowledge of Financial Inclusion. Professional project management certification. Application closing date
12th May, 2015.
Method of application
Interested and qualified candidates should send their CV’s to: mbc2016_fb@outlook.com 
Note: Only Selected applicant will be contacted.     Saro Agro Sciences Limited is the leader in the Nigerian Crop Protection industry. We are a wholly indigenous company, committed to the provision of dependable solutions to crop production problems in a distinctive, rewarding and responsible way. We have our head office located in Ibadan and offices across in Nigeria as well as in some West and Central African Countries.
As a result of our expansion in the Northern part of the country, opportunities have been created for graduates to join our organisation through our Graduates to join our organisation through our Graduate Trainee Scheme. Successful candidates will work in any of our offices in the North.
Saro Agro Sciences Limited is recruiting to fill the position below:
Job title: Front desk officer 
Location: Oyo
Primary responsibilities: Answer phones and operate a switchboard. Route calls to specific people. Schedule meetings and conference rooms. Coordinate office activities. Organising And Servicing Meetings (Producing Agendas And Taking Minutes) Photocopying and printing various documents, sometimes on behalf of other colleagues. Maintains safe and clean reception area by complying with procedures, rules, and regulations. Qualification and experience: OND in Mass Communication, Business administration, Secretarial studies or other related courses Must have minimum of 2 years relevant experience Age: Not more than 26 Years Application closing date:
6th May, 2015.
How to apply:
Interested and qualified associates should mail in their Curriculum Vitae and brief profile electronically (in excel format below) using the position you’re applying for as the subject of the mail to: Vacancy@saroafrica.com.ng  