President Goodluck Jonathan’s electoral defeat by the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, General Muhammadu Buhari, has been blamed on the appointment of Mr. Femi Fani-Kayode in the president’s campaign team and his intractable disagreement with former President Olusegun Obasanjo. Making the observation on Tuesday in an interview with THISDAY, a Lagos-based human right activist, Mr. Olufemi Aduwo, who is the national coordinator of Rights Monitoring Group (RMG), said many Nigerians were disenchanted with the appointment of Fani-Kayode as a director in the president’s campaign team. “In a situation where those who destroyed the president last year became the spokesperson – because for me I spoke with a lot of PDP chieftains in the South-west – I can mention their names, who were not comfortable with Fani-Kayode’s emergence as the president’s Director of Media and Publicity. “How can Fani-Kayode come and be defending the same Jonathan he destroyed a year ago. How qualified is Fani-Kayode to come and defend the president? It is a blunder! And then when you see the APC, they look for professionals. Whether you like it or not, Dele Alake is a professional journalist. “He did a lot of work. He talked less and did a good work. In Lagos here, look at Ambode and the former Editor of National Mirror (Steve Ayorinde). The PDP is so myopic. Not only are they greedy, they are myopic, self-centred and the level of their thinking. “You will be shocked that in a study we did about three months ago, I gave a copy to Mr. Ebenezer Babatope, Chief Bode George, Mr. Segun Oni and I sent a message to the president that PDP will lose and that it is going to be between a range of 44 – 56 per cent. He added that another major setback for the president was his fight with Obasanjo, stressing: “It was a big blow. But those people surrounding Jonathan thought it was not. “If you go to the North and you just call ‘OBJ,’ they are not comfortable. They see him as a demigod. They call him ‘baba.’ It is only we here that don’t recognise him that way. He may have his shortcomings but when people like that gave expert advice to Jonathan, he should have taken it,” he noted.  Culled from This Day