Barely a month to his official assumption of office as President of Nigeria, indications are already awash in the media regarding calls for Nigeria’s incoming President, Muhammadu Buhari to scrap foreign scholarships in Nigeria. In a statement issued by Ahmed Adamu, Chairperson of the Commonwealth Youth Council (CYC) on Saturday, the Council advised President-Elect, Muhammadu Buhari to scrap the scholarship scheme, which has empowered thousands of indigent Nigerian youths to pursue their educational aspirations abroad. According to a source in the Federal Ministry of Education who spoke with BREAKING TIMES on condition of anonymity, the call for Buhari to scrap foreign scholarships is part of a bigger plan to stealthily islamicise the Education sector in Nigeria in line with Buhari’s Islamic ideals which consider Western education as a “sin (haram)”. “Another programme that has been marked for extinction is the YouWiN! programme. We are aware the incoming President considers the continued existence of the project especially the YouWiN! Women – a special edition for women – as inimical to his religious ideals. Expect YouWiN! to be scrapped within the first six months of Buhari’s tenure”, the source said. YouWiN! Women was the second edition of the entrepreneurial scheme, which was designed for only female entrepreneurs aged 45 years or less. “If the foreign scholarships are scrapped, youths from the predominantly Christian south of Nigeria who currently constitute the majority beneficiaries will be the most hit. This is unacceptable and we will resist it”, a prominent Senator from South-Eastern Nigeria told BREAKING TIMES. Although his media handlers have worked tirelessly to recast his persona as an Islamic fundamentalist,Buhari continues to come under harsh criticism over his brazen and openly fanatical approach to the practice of his religion. He has been quoted as saying that “I will continue to show openly and inside me the total commitment to the Sharia movement that is sweeping all over Nigeria. God willing, we will not stop the agitation for the total implementation of the Sharia in the country.” Culled from The Trent