A socio-political group, Akala Team, has advised the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State not to be overjoyed by its victory in the March 28 Presidential and National Assembly election. The group is championing the return of the candidate of Labour Party (LP), Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, as governor in Saturday’s governorship and Houses of Assembly election. Director of Public Affairs of the group, Oludare Ogunlana, gave the advice on Tuesday at a press conference in Ibadan, adding that it was because Nigerians were desirous of change that they voted for the APC presidential candidate, General Muhammadu Buhari. This victory, however, he added, would not favour the APC in Oyo State, because people were tired of the anti- masses policies of Governor Abiola Ajimobi, saying that “Saturday’s polls will be politically different from that of March 28, 2015.” According to Ogunlana: “Not even the planned visit of the President-elect to Oyo State, to shore up support for Governor Abiola Ajimobi, will deter the people from sending Ajimobi away. “The governor does not deserve such treatment, as he did not support his party’s presidential candidate. It is on record that the governor was shocked to hear the news of Buhari’s success in the presidential election. “Moving with an Abiola Ajimobi may stain the hardearned integrity of the former Head of State, because the governor has yet to clear himself of several allegations against him,” adding: “It is on record that Ajimobi’s penchant for financial misconduct is second to none. “This is a governor who constructed a flyover at an obnoxious amount of N2.9 billion, while his ‘brother’ from the same APC constructed a dual one in Ogun State at the cost of N1.5 billion,” he said. He criticised Ajimobi for blaming inadequate and delayed federal allocation as the reason for his non-performance. “It was irresponsible for the APC administration to blame paucity of funds for its under-performance, at a time the government is winding up. No amount of lies will save Ajimobi from defeat, for having nothing to show for all the allocations his administration had gotten since inception. This government is not only fraudulent, but also lacks creativity,” he added. Ogunlana denied the rumours making the rounds that Alao-Akala had stepped down for another candidate, adding: “Our standard bearer, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, is very much in the race. He has not stepped down for anybody. We are very optimistic of victory in Saturday’s election.” Culled from dailytimes