  The Secretary, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Board of Trustees (BOT), Senator Walid Jibrin, has said that the party will never die in spite of its electoral misfortune in the March 28 presidential and National Assembly elections. Jibrin said this yesterday while speaking with newsmen in his country home in Nasarawa, Nasarawa Local Government Area of the state. While encouraging the party’s supporters not to be deterred by the defeat it suffered in the elections, he assured them that the party would bounce back and win all positions in future elections in the country. “I want to tell you and the whole world that the various PDP governments since the inception of the party, had done a lot in fighting poverty, hunger, unemployment and youth restiveness as well as empowering women. “Also promoting peace and boosting the socio-economic development of the country. President Jonathan had transformed the education, agriculture, economic, health, judicial, commercial sectors, the electoral system, among others. “His transformation agenda had touched and improved on the lives of every Nigerians positively. “Nigerians have seen what the PDP government had done in terms of establishing and equipping secondary and tertiary education, creating job opportunities, provision of infrastructural facilities, tackling insecurity and , prompt payment of workers salaries, among others. “In spite of the defeat our great party, PDP, suffered during the March 28 Presidential and National Assembly elections, losing the presidential seat to APC, PDP will not and will never die. It will continue to exist and we will win all positions in future elections.” He acknowledged that in every contest, there must be a winner and a loser and pledged the party’s commitment to do everything humanly possible to achieve its set targets and to improve on the standard of living of Nigerians for the benefit of all. Jibrin applauded President Goodluck Jonathan for exhibiting a high level of maturity by conceding defeat and urged other politicians to emulate him. “For President Jonathan to accept defeat when he lost his second term presidential ambition to the All Progressives Congress (APC) has accorded him great respect from all Nigerians and even from the international community. “This shows that President Jonathan is a true democrat who has the interest of Nigerians at heart and we will continue to pray for him and other newly elected leaders, to enable them to succeed.” He urged PDP supporters and other Nigerians to be law-abiding, respect constituted authority and not allow themselves to be used by selfish individuals to foment trouble in the society. The PDP Board of Trustee Secretary further enjoined the people of the state and Nigerians in general to live in peace and tolerate one another, irrespective of ethnic, religious and political affiliation, for the overall development of the country. Stories by FRANCIS NANSAK