eTranzact International PLC, Africa’s leading provider of mobile banking and payments services has recorded a PAT of N168.1 million in Quarter 1, 2015. The results which have been officially received by the Nigerian stock exchange represent a 91% increase from results posted in the same quarter last year. Following a very successful 2014, the company has announced significant partnerships with MasterCard, World Remit and other key global players in the payments space, and also gone on to strengthen its mobile banking, mobile money, remittance, and corporate pay businesses, making significant investment in technology and product development which have positioned it for further growth in 2015. “Our Company has experienced consistent growth in revenue and profitability over the past 10 years with transaction activity value, volumes and partnerships also experiencing significant growth in the last 3 years. Key to our growth has been setting key performance indexes around user experience, platform stability and technology development, and we plan to continue to do this,” says Mr Valentine Obi, CEO of eTranzact International PLC who was recently honored as one of the top 25 CEOs in Nigeria by Business day Newspapers. eTranzact will also for the first time be part of the Mobile Web West Africa 2015, a conference that is bringing together leaders of Mobile in Africa, as a thought leader sponsor. Mr Valentine Obi will be on a panel discussing “WHAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN TO ACCELERATE EVOLUTION IN MOBILE?” sharing his experience developing mobile payments at a time where telecommunications was just beginning to grow in Nigeria. Also speaking at the event from eTranzact will be Mr Adeyemi Adeyemo, Group Head, Business development who will be speaking on “THE DEVELOPMENT OF MOBILE BANKING AND MONEY SERVICES” talking about some of the specific developments in the industry in the last 10 years. Mr Ayo Oladimeji, Head of Mobile Payments will also be on a panel discussing the next level for payments in the region.  By Justus Adejumoh