 …Ikpeazu rules Abia amidst controversy
EZUGWU OBINNA
Imo State governor and the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), OwelleRochasOkorocha has defied the odds to retain his seat as the Imo State Chief executive, making him
the only candidate of the APC that has won an election in the entire South East geopolitical zone. The incumbent governor polled a total of 416,996 votes to beat his closest rival, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Hon. EmekaIhedioha, who secured a total of 320,705 according to the result announced by the state’s Chief Returning Officer, Professor IfedapoObe. The Imo governorship election had been declares inconclusive on April 11 by Prof. Obe following the cancellation of over 144,000 votes which was over the 79,000 lead margin of the APC candidate in the overall collated results. In the neighbouringAbia State however, the PDP consolidated on its status as the dominant party in the South East as its governorship candidate, DrOkezeIkpeazu  was declared winner of the state’s governorship election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). However, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) candidate, Dr Alex Otti has kicked against the result. Ikpeazu according to the results declared by the electoral body polled 264,173 votes to beat his rival, DrOtti of the APGA who scored 180,882 votes. Meanwhile, following the announcement of the results angry youths who were disappointed with the outcome of the polls took to the streets blocking major access roads leading to the home of the PDP candidate. In another development however, an organisation known as UkwaNgwa Professionals has congratulated Ikpeazu on his emergence as governor-elect of the state. In a congratulatory message released by its leader, Chief Theo Nkire, the organization thanked Abia people for voting for the PDP candidate and greeted the outgoing governor of the state, Chief T.A Orji for keeping faith with Ngwa people. “The UkwaNgwa Nation hereby congratulates our son Dr. OkezieIkpeazu on his resounding victory at the polls and his emergence as the Governor of Abia State following the 2015 general elections.  Yours is the victory of light over darkness; the victory of truth over falsehood, a victory for fairness, equity and justice,” Nkire said. “We salute you, Dr. Ikpeazu, for your uncommon candour in the face of all provocation. We salute all Abia people for their ability to decipher the truth from falsehood and their decision to stand by the truth at all times. We salute you in particular, Chief Theodore Orji, the outgoing Governor of Abia State for keeping faith with the UkwaNgwa people and for standing by us to the end. We shall never forget.” The organization further extended a hand of fellowship to all Abia people and enjoined them to contribute their quota in moving the state forward. 