A member of the House of Representatives representing Ekiti North federal constituency 1, Hon. Bimbo Daramola (APC, Ekiti), has called on the president-elect, General Muhammadu Buhari, to look beyond the missing $20billion in the accounts of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) as there are other government agencies and parastatals, which also needed to be investigated. Daramola, who spoke to journalists in Abuja yesterday, said the decision of the President-elect to probe the controversial missing money was a right step in the right direction as it will translate to the much expected ‘change’ Nigerians are craving for. “It is not NNPC alone that General Buhari should look at, there are a number of parastatals that General Buhari should not close his eyes to and at the appropriate time he will provide information on why he finds, for instance, all kinds of malfeasance that are going on there. “If the President-elect does not do that, that is the greatest distraction, which is not the ‘change’. I didn’t believed when I heard somebody say somewhere that General Buhari was just going to draw a line and move on from there. I studied geology is school and geology says the past is the key to the future and that is why people study fossils. If you want to know about geology of an area, you look for fossils to tell you who has lived there before and the history of the area and all that. “I will, as a member of the party, advocate very strongly that General Buhari should look at all areas,” Daramola said. I heard and I was told that all of a sudden, they have started returning money back to the treasury, where is the money coming from? I don’t mean witch-hunting anybody,” he said. He noted that he once moved a motion on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), adding that they all needed to be probed by the in-coming government. “So, quote me that, General Buhari must look at some of these things and it is about time we can’t move forward without dusting our books, the devil is in the details,” Daramola said.