President Goodluck Jonathan has felicitated with Nigerian Christians as they celebrate this year’s Easter, urging them to be prepared and willing to make sacrifices for greater unity, peace, political stability and progress in our beloved country. President Jonathan, according to an Easter message personally signed by him, called on Nigerians to seize the opportunity of the Easter holiday to reflect deeply on what more they need to do as a people, to ensure that the political process the nation is currently engaged is successfully concluded and that the country continues to move towards a better future for all of its citizens. Bellow is the full text of the message:  Fellow citizens,
I greet you all, especially our Christian brothers and sisters, as we celebrate Easter in commemoration of the resurrection of our Lord, Jesus Christ.
For Christians all over the world, the major lessons of Easter, which we celebrate this year in the midst of general elections in our nation, are to be found in the Messiah’s Divine love and glorious self-sacrifice for the redemption of mankind.
This year’s celebration of Easter is taking place at a period of very critical national choices and decisions, during which we must all be prepared and willing to make sacrifices for greater unity, peace, political stability and progress in our beloved country.
We must therefore seize the opportunity of the Easter holiday to reflect deeply on what more we need to do as a people, to ensure that the political process in which we are currently engaged is successfully concluded and that our beloved country, Nigeria continues to move towards a better future for all of its citizens.
Happily, we have already successfully scaled the hurdle of the Presidential and National Assembly Elections. I am quite hopeful that the Gubernatorial and State Assembly elections will also be conducted peacefully.
To the glory and pride of our fatherland, our collective actions since March 28 have assured the world that the democratic spirit is alive and well in our nation.
By the grace of God, our beloved nation, Nigeria is moving forward despite all challenges.
Let us all pray this Easter, that God Almighty who has brought us this far, will continue to bless our nation as we march onward towards the fulfillment of our collective vision of a truly united, strong and prosperous nation.
I wish you all very happy Easter celebrations. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, GCFR
President,
Federal Republic of Nigeria
April 4, 2015