   Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has won ten (10) Local Governments outof eleven (11) so far released by the Independent Electoral Commission(INEC). Though, the results which started trickling in yesterday evening drew strong protests from some youths believed to be loyalist of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who besieged Asaba office of the INEC.  They sang solidarity songs and also hauled insults at heavily armed guards drafted to maintain peace, and demanded for cancellation of Sapele Local Government Election results which they said were marred by irregularities.  Unlike the March 28 Presidential and National Assembly elections whichwas marred by late arrival of voting materials and malfunctioning ofthe card reader, governorship and House of Assembly’s election wassmooth as materials arrived on time. It was also largely devoid of violence, from the state capital ofAsaba to OgwashiUku, Aniocha South Local Council to Koko,headquarters of Warri North Local Council and Abigborodo, the nativehome of Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan and Mr. Mike Diden, formercommissioner DESOPADEC, there was minimal complaints as materialsarrived on time and the card reader worked with mechanical accuracy. Accreditation in Oshimili South and Oshimili North Local GovernmentAreas ‎started smoothly at about 9 am. It was a similar story atOgwashi-Uku and Nsukwa in Government Area. But the process was delayed in Ndokwa West and Ndokwa East LocalGovernment Areas, where both election materials and officials, arrivedthe polling units at 11am. Speaking at Abigborodo shortly after casting his vote at 1.45 pm,Uduaghan who was accompanied by his wife, Roli said that he wasimpressed with the turnout of voters. He said: “There was an improvement in the process particularly thearrival of materials and accreditation. It was much earlier than lasttime. My happiness is that Deltans are beginning to live with violencefree polls. We have been having problems with security and as suchDelta was regarded as one of the flash-point states, but we succeededin having a violence free presidential election.”  A House of Assembly candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) inWarri North Constituency, Mr. Michael Diden said he was also impressed by the conduct of the election. Diden popularly called Ejele said he was optimistic of victory as theelection was free and fair, adding that vote would count in theelection Also former governor James Ibori’s daughter emerged winner of theEthiope West state constituency seat with 32700 votes, against APC’s1709 and Labour Party 1429 votes. Stories by BARRY AGBANIGBI, Asaba