The President-elect, Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday in Abuja, said the time had come to make more sacrifices and deliver on the promises made to the electorate. Buhari said this when a delegation of All Progressives Congress (APC) politicians from Kogi and Kwara states paid him a courtesy visit at the party presidential campaign headquarters in Abuja.
Sai-BuhariHe said it was time to restore security and confidence in the people who placed their trust in the party by voting its candidates at various levels.
He added that “I want to appeal to you to work with your colleagues across the country to ensure that we maintain and sustain this unexpected gains in the best interest of our country.
“It is time to make a lot more sacrifices. You are the real foot soldiers and you have the constituencies in your hands.’’
Buhari then urged those who won election on the platform of the APC at different levels to ensure that they made impact on the electorate. He said “let us make sacrifices and deliver on what we promised the people to make our jobs as members of the executive much easier.
“People should feel secure in Nigeria. Let us give confidence to the people who voted us in no matter who you are, you should get justice. “Whatever we can do in terms of social services, healthcare and security should be done, that is all they need.’’ The president-elect expressed gratitude to the electorate in the constituencies as he recalled the political structures which collapsed into forming the APC on the day he visited the area.
Gov. Abdulfattah Ahmed of Kwara, who led his state’s APC delegation, pledged allegiance to Buhari’s government in his congratulatory message. He recalled that the North-Central played a major role in ensuring that Buhari got block votes from the region in the March 28 elections.
Former Kogi Governor, Abubakar Audu, who led the Kogi delegation, assured Buhari of 100 per cent support as the state was now an “APC stronghold.’’ Audu said should Buhari wish to stay in office beyond 2019, the state would spearhead his campaigns.