Ahead of  Saturday’s governorship and state Assembly elections, President Goodluck Jonathan has called on Nigerians to remain peaceful, united and law-abiding.
He condemned attempts by some politicians, groups and individuals to intimidate others, heat up the polity and cause public disorder and disaffection in the aftermath of the presidential and National Assembly elections.
In a statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Dr. ‎Reuben Abati, President Jonathan said he was especially concerned about the negative conduct of certain individuals  since March 31, which tended to detract from his personal commitment to post-election peace, unity and national stability.
He called on all those who  through their actions and utterances, had been promoting divisiveness, sectionalism and ethnic hatred in the country following the outcome of the March 28 elections to desist from conducts that detracted from the true spirit and culture of democracy envisioned by patriotic men and women in the country.
President Jonathan also condemned the undue harassment of public officials serving under his administration and urged all affected persons to continue to perform their lawful duties without fear.
He also cautioned that this should be a time for the healing of political wounds in the overriding interest of national unity, stability and progress, not a time for ethnic jingoism and the settling of scores. He warned that the Federal Government, under his administration, would not condone any attempt to instigate a crisis in any part of the country in furtherance of personal political ambitions.
Jonathan assured all Nigerians that his administration remains fully committed to national progress and the entrenchment of the best values of democracy for the good of all Nigerians.
He urged Nigerians to go out en-masse once again on April 11 to vote for candidates of their choice in the Governorship and State Assembly elections with the confidence that his administration will do all within its powers to ensure that they do so in peace, without threats, intimidation or violence from any quarters. Culled from Sun 