Barack Obama’s next job: Sell the Iran deal
The president vows to lead the charge on explaining the agreement to the American public. By Edward-Isaac Dovere and Michael Crowley That’s the argument the White House is preparing to make to convince members of Congress, Americans and foreign allies that the framework announced Thursday is the best way to check Iran’s nuclear program. Story Continued Below The administration is planning an aggressive public effort to explain and defend the Iran framework — including a tough assessment of the alternatives — that President Barack Obama vowed on Thursday that he’d lead himself. “This is very complicated. A lot of this is hard to talk about to the American people,” said one senior administration official in the hours after Obama kicked things off Thursday. “This is tough stuff to put your mind around.” BURGESS EVERETT The pitch was clear from Obama’s statement in the Rose Garden and Secretary of State John Kerry’s follow-up press conference in Switzerland: The deal will shut down all of Iran’s paths to a nuclear weapon, international inspectors will be able to make sure Iran isn’t cheating, and the restrictions will last 10 to 20 years — and in some cases, permanently. And the big closer: Do this or prepare for a war that no one wants and won’t work anyway. “Simply demanding that Iran capitulate makes a nice sound bite, but it’s not a policy,” Kerry said. There was a detailed inter-agency plan set to go if a deal came through, but as much as Obama has put on the line seeking the deal — with Democrats on the Hill, and with allies throughout the Middle East — aides remained skeptical enough about their chances as they went into the final weekend before the deadline. Within minutes of the framework’s announcement in Switzerland, the fight had already moved to the politics, back in America and in Iran, with swipes on official Twitter accounts and background conversations with reporters. “There’s no doubt that [Iranian Foreign Minister] Javad Zarif will have to sell this deal just like we will,” the senior administration official said.
The strategy until now — overseen by Ben Rhodes, Obama’s top foreign policy message man — has been to brief influential experts and friendly reporters on the progress of the talks and build support among congressional Democrats through regular White House meetings. Yet in a measure of how much convincing they have to do, even Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.), one of the most liberal members of the House, isn’t on board yet. For all the Iran briefings he’s attended — including as part of a group of Jewish Hill Democrats who’ve met every few weeks with Rhodes — Nadler stresses that this is just a framework, with no sure commitment about what would be in a final deal or whether this is really the best option. “I’m in a very shaky position, because I don’t know what the deal is, but No. 2, since I don’t know what the alternative is,” Nadler said — though he added that those who’ve simply been calling for more sanctions haven’t explained themselves either. “If you impose sanctions while they’re racing for a bomb, you’re making a bet,” Nadler said. “If the odds are very good of you winning that bet, then that’s better than a bad deal.” He’s not the only one. Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) issued a statement Thursday afternoon, promising to give the framework “a very careful look.” Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.) who has replaced the indicted Sen. Bob Menendez as ranking member on the Foreign Relations Committee, said only that “Congress has a role to play in this process and I look forward to reviewing all the details.
The public isn’t opposed to talking with Iran. A Pew Research Center poll this week found that 49 percent of Americans said they support talks over a nuclear deal. But the doubts are strong: 63 percent said they don’t think Iran is serious about addressing concerns over their nuclear program, and they don’t want to give Obama a free hand — 62 percent want Congress to have the final say over any agreement. In addition to briefing key members of Congress, Rhodes also arranged for private off-the-record meetings at the White House for outside experts whose opinions carry extra weight with reporters covering the talks. “They’re obviously aware that there will be a lot of commentary on developments, and the White House tries to inform that commentary,” said Ploughshares Fund President Joe Cirincione, who supports the nuclear talks and is a regular attendee at the sessions. The sessions were typically held in a meeting room at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building — though they were sometimes conducted via conference call — and could include more than a dozen participants, most of them Obama-friendly experts on arms control and Iran. Some included briefings from senior officials involved in the talks, including lead U.S. negotiator and State Department official Wendy Sherman; Jake Sullivan, a State Department deputy to Hillary Clinton who later joined Vice President Joe Biden’s staff; and Paul Irwin, director of nonproliferation at the National Security Council. Invitees would receive an email calling them to the White House, with the caution that it was “not for amplification on social media,” according to one email seen by POLITICO. The sessions were off the record, although one person who has attended said they were short on details and long enough on pro-administration talking points that he felt uncomfortable and stopped attending Working with National Security Council spokesperson Bernadette Meehan, Rhodes drove the message that the nuclear talks — however imperfect — were the only realistic alternative to military action with Iran. The either/or framing became central to White House communications about the talks. President Obama reiterated the message in his Rose Garden remarks on Thursday. “So when you hear the inevitable critics of the deal sound off, ask them a simple question,” he said. Is the deal really “a worse option than the risk of another war in the Middle East?” It’s a blunt but potentially very effective message. 