A clarion call has gone out to Nigerians to always be their brother’s keeper by showing more love and affection to the less- privilege people in the society The president of the Nigeria Bar Association, (NBA), Mr. Augustine Alegeh made this clarion call at function held to honour  him by the Diamond Elite Ladies Association  as their Patron as well as his recent elevation as the President of NBA at Planet One, in Lagos, recently Mr. Alegeh said the less privilege people in the society deserve to be more catered for in order to build a just society where people who are less fortunate can feel happy and be comfortable. He added that the holy book has equally enjoined us to be generous in our dealings with the less privilege people by showing love and affection to them always. To this end, the NBA president therefore appealed to Nigerians not to overlook the needs of those who are less fortunate amongst but to always rise to the occasion to assist them with the financial and material wealth that the good lord has blessed us with The NBA president was later presented a plaque of honour by the Diamond Elite Ladies Association for being their patron over the years In her speech the president of the Club Mrs Ferishat Alegeh thanked the NBA president for all the unflinching support the club has received from him.  “He has contributed financially to the club and has remained a great source of encouragement and a pillar of support to us” She said. Continuing, the Mrs Alegeh said that it was on the basis of these huge contributions that the club decided to honour this gentleman of the legal profession, who by dint of hardwork, perseverance and uncommon commitment has risen to the enviable position as the president of the Nigeria Bar Association. “We therefore celebrate him today for being a good patron to the club as well as honour him on his most recent elevation as the NBA president” she added The basic objective of the club, Mrs Alegeh revealed is essentially to “reach out to the less-privileged people amongst us in the society. This has been our key vision and the thrust of our activities over the years. “As a club, we have held on tenaciously to this noble vision by continuously bringing succour and smiles in our own little ways to the faces of the less-privileged people in the society” Since the formation of the club we have been involved in a lot of charity work; we have visited a number of orphanage and destitute homes including Modupe Cole Home at Yaba; Heritage Orphanage Home at Anthony Village; Mercy Orphanage Home at Egbeda and several other Orphanages where we have donated food and materials to the homes.  JUSTUS ADEJUMOH