Some capital market operators have predicted that the Nigerian stock market would witness a rebound with proper implementation of the proposed 2016 budget by the Federal Government. They said in Lagos that market growth and development would be tied to the budget and government’s commitment to diversifying the economy. The Managing Director, APT Securities and Funds Ltd, Malam Garba Kurfi, urged government to pursue economic and monetary policies that would bring back both foreign and local investors to the market. Kurfi said that government should look for other sources of revenue, noting that the market had lost over N2 trillion so far because of the country’s mono-product economy. “We are optimistic that market will experience improved performance in 2016 and government should be the first driver by ensuring proper implementation of the budget. “Most of the companies are trading below their fair value currently because of uncertainties in the economy,” Kurfi said. He said that government should show more commitment to the market through the introduction of friendly policies and tax incentives to boost investors’ confidence and woo more investors. On the sectors that would drive the equities market, Kurfi predicted that the with government’s determination to curb insurgency in the North East, the building materials sector would witness increased activity. He said that there would be a high demand of building materials with a lot of construction work expected in the North East. Kurfi added that expectations of fuel subsidy removal would boost activities in the oil and gas sector. The Managing Director, Investment One Stockbroking International Ltd, Mr Oluwole Awe, attributed the lull in the market to the insurgency in the North East, the general elections, fall in global oil price and declining foreign exchange reserves. Awe stated that poor economic performance in Europe and Asia, weak corporate performance and the weak naira contributed to the market development. He called on market regulators, government and operators to ensure transparency, good corporate governance and strong investor protection to enhance confidence in the nation’s economy. Awe added that diversification of the nation’s economy was paramount for meaningful growth and development. 