The e-commerce leader in Africa formalizes the appointment of Mrs Juliet Anammah at the head of Jumia Nigeria, Africa Internet Group’s (AIG) biggest company on the continent. Juliet is taking over from former Co-CEOs Jeremy Doutte and Nicolas Martin, who are taking the reins of Jumia Global across the 11 African countries in which the group operates. “Juliet brings strong leadership capacity and a consumer driven mindset honed from her experience in consumer goods and services”, said Jeremy Hodara, Co-CEO Africa Internet Group.” “As Jumia moves into a new phase of growth, consolidating on the gains so far, while driving for more relevance to our customers, Juliet’s ability to focus sharply on the strategic levers of success is invaluable”, Prior to joining Jumia, Juliet Anammah was a Partner in Accenture and the Managing Director of the firm’s Consumer Goods Practice in Nigeria. She focused during her later years in Accenture on the digital consumer and route to market for consumer goods companies. She brings to Jumia over 24 years of professional experience with six years at senior executive level. Passionate about “Africa rising” and women advancement, Juliet serves on the board of many non-profit organizations involved in women development and trade expansion. This appointment marks a new phase of growth for Jumia Nigeria, emphasized by two key themes: the focus on the customer and the partnership of Jumia with its brands and its vendors, which will be the battlefield of the newly appointed CEO. “My objective is to relentlessly focus on building the Jumia brand, making it the one-stop shopping destination in Nigeria by offering convenience and the widest assortment of quality products at affordable prices”, said Juliet Anammah. “We are building a platform for local and global brands to enter the market at the speed of light by going directly from the factory to the consumers. This is a game changer for Nigeria and a major shift in the way companies look at their market entry strategy”.