President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to rededicate themselves to the virtues of peace, love, honesty, justice, equity, piety, humility and service to others. The president made the call in a Christmas message to Nigerians, especially the Christian faithful, as they celebrate this year’s Christmas on Friday.
“I felicitate with all Nigerians, especially our Christian brothers and sisters, on the joyous occasion of this year’s Christmas.
“On this occasion of the commemoration of the birth of Jesus Christ, let us all rededicate ourselves to the virtues of peace, love, honesty, justice, equity, piety, humility and service to others which he taught.
“There can be no doubt that a greater manifestation of these virtues and ideals in our lives will immensely help us to become a more united, peaceful, secure and progressive nation.’’
Buhari also enjoined Nigerians to reach out in love and compassion to fellow Nigerians who were in distress at this period of the nation’s history.
He, particularly, urged Nigerians to remember victims of terrorism and insurgency in the country, especially Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs).
According to him, the Federal Government will continue to collaborate with state governments and other stakeholders to ease the harsh conditions in IDP camps.
He said his administration’s ultimate objective was to quickly end insurgency and return the IDPs to their homes.
“We must never again allow any group to hold the nation to ransom under whatever guise.
“Let us also not allow current socio-economic and security challenges to dampen our expectations for a better Nigeria,’’ he added.
The president stated that his administration had taken a number of measures to restore hope to the people.
According to him, the 2016 budget defines his administration’s commitment to giving Nigeria a new lease of life.
“Our change slogan is not a campaign gimmick but a promise that must be kept.’’
He further expressed the determination of the Federal Government to bring about tangible changes in the lives of all Nigerians.
“In this regard, efforts will be intensified to recover stolen funds, block revenue leakages and enthrone due process, transparency and accountability.
“Public office is a public trust that must be held to the highest ethical standards.
“I wish all Nigerians a Merry Christmas.
“Please drive carefully,’’ he said.(NAN)