Former national chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, Chief Victor Umeh last Sunday held a thanksgiving service in celebration of his political and marital successes. MAURICE OKAFOR in Enugu reports July 19, 2015 will go down in history as a very remarkable day for the people of Aguluzigbo community, in Anaocha local government area of Anambra State. It was a day people from all walks of life, comprising both the political class, professionals from different fields, the clergy and the masses trouped to the historical Igbo town of Aguluzigbo in very large number to celebrate with an Igbo leader and son of the soil, Chief Victor Umeh. It was a day Chief Umeh marked his 53rd birthday and the 25th marriage anniversary to his heartthrob, Mrs. Prisca Umeh. Sir Umeh also considered the successful completion of his tenure as APGA national chairman as another reason to thank God on the same day. Therefore, the three in one clebration informed his decision to organize a thanksgiving service at his home church, St Patrick’s Catholic Church, Aguluzigbo to appreciate God. The reason stems from the fact that Umeh, who is a committed Christian of Catholic faith, attributed his wisdom, strength and success to God Almighty, and not by his own might as a carnal being. The Catholic Bishop of Awka, Most Rev. Paulinus C. Ezeokafor with his team of priests from the Diocese heralded the high mass, during which Umeh and Prisca also renewed their marriage vows, twenty five years after. To the effect, the happy couple presented a wedding cake which was blessed by the Bishop for a re-solemnization of their marriage, “for better or for worse” in accordance with Christian tradition. Hallmark observed that St Patrick’s Catholic Church Aguluizigbo, the venue of the church service was filled to capacity by guests, friends and political associates of Umeh. Even the canopies that were spread outside had no empty space. The clement weather permitted by the grace of God at the peak of the rainy season, usually experienced within the month of July is a very good testimony that the heavenly archangels were in support of the tripartite thanksgiving by Umeh’s family. Throughout the church service which lasted for over four hours, the Anambra State governor, Chief Willie Obiano, his deputy and the speaker of the state House of Assembly, and other political stalwarts of APGA remained steadfast till the end of the service. The Catholic Bishop of Awka, Most Revd Ezeokafor, prayed for God’s continued guidance and blessings to continue to reign in Umeh’s family and beyond. The Bishop had earlier extolled the humanitarian virtues of Umeh to both the church and the society at large. With the church service over, attention was shifted to Umeh’s family home at Aguluzigbo, about a kilometer away from the St Patrick’s church ground, where both invited and uninvited guests were entertained lavishly. Speaking to news men thereafter, Umeh explained that the objective of the thanksgiving service was to express gratitude for God’s immense blessings in his life. According to him, Sunday July 19, 2015 marked his 53th Birth day, and his successful marriage to his Angel, Mrs. Prisca Umeh, which is blessed with seven children and is at its 25th year. Therefore, he has reason to rededicate themselves to God Almighty. But most of it all, Umeh said he equally considered it wise to express gratitude to God Almighty, for having guided him successfully throughout his two terms as APGA national chairman, which he described as very turbulent. In all he went through about 43 different suits, at various law courts across the federation, from 2012 to 2015. Umeh said that his happiness stems from the fact that by God’s grace he was able to overcome all those challenges and repositioned APGA on the course of victory, as can be testified from the success of the party in Anambra State and the 2011 Imo State governorship election, which was won by Governor Rochas Okorocha on the platform of APGA. Umeh disclosed that he has put those challenges at the back of his mind and have forgiven all those who persecuted him as he looks forward to reconciling with all his political adversaries, for the interest of moving APGA forward. “I thank God for the journey so far, but the struggle continues. Having gone through a difficult period in the life of APGA, I’ve forgiven all those who fought me, for they didn’t know what they were doing. I don’t need to bear any animosity against any person. They have seen the hand of God is with me. My miracle is from God. Before I do anything, I always look up to God’. Umeh expressed optimism that his successor as APGA national chairman, Chief Victor Ikechukwu Oye, will have a smooth ride in office, because he has fought and conquered all the wars that confronted APGA, as a party. However, Umeh disclosed that he is not quitting the nation’s political scene after serving as APGA national chairman. He said he will bounce back in a matter of weeks to get deeply involved in the course of strengthening the nation’s democratic process, especially in fighting the cause of the Igbo nation. “I am resting for only a few weeks and will come back to tell Nigerians that the Igbo nation will not be taking for a ride. Igbos must have their fair share in the nation’s polity. I will join in the struggle for Igbo emancipation. He continued that, “Mr. President should know that the Igbo nation is an important tribe in Nigeria. I want President Buhari to reintegrate the Igbos and eradicate pains of the civil war. The Hallmark checks revealed that the thanksgiving service mass held to mark the successful completion of Umeh’s tenure as APGA national chairman, his 53th birthday and silver jubilee of his marriage was one occasion too many, in the sense that many Nigerians, corporate organizations, non-governmental organizations and church associations irrespective of denomination, who couldn’t be physically present at the event, sent their goodwill messages to the former APGA boss. Some of these goodwill messages came from the Catholic Bishop of Enugu, Most Revd Callistus Onaga, the Catholic Archbishop of Onitsha, Most Rev. Valerian Okeke, the Bishop of Niger Diocese, Anglican Communion, Rt Rev Owen Nwokolo etc all of which expressed delight to God’s immeasurable love on Umeh. Along party lines, a former minister of Information, Mr. Labaran Maku, who is currently an APGA stalwart and Dr Ernest Ndukwe, the former NCC boss, also sent their congratulatory and goodwill messages to Umeh. The list of congratulatory messages from the business class also trickled in large numbers. It could be recalled that Umeh was among the class of eminent Nigerians, who were specially distinguished and honoured earlier in the year, in recognition of their meritorious services to the nation in the Hallmark Newspaper ‘Nigeria Rising Award. He is a recipient of several awards and honours. 