 It was an historic gathering as the 1000 finalists of the Tony Elumelu Entrepreneurship Programme (TEEP)  converge for a 2-day bootcamp at the African Leader Development Centre (ALDC), Covenant University, Sango-Otta, Ogun State. The finalists were drawn from 51 African countries with Nigeria, Kenya, Uganda, Ghana and South Africa being the five most represented countries. The event which aims to promote the ideals of entrepreneurship and development in Nigeria and across Africa  had in attendance Vice president Yemi Osinbajo, Bishop David Oyedepo, Mr Tony Elumelu, Nasir El-Rufai, the Prime Minister of Benin Republic, Lionel Zinsou, Nollywood actress, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde amongst other inspiring Nigerians. The Vice President in his address advocated greater respect for the rule of law as economies cannot grow without social affairs which are in turn regulated by the rule of law. The prime minister of Benin Republic, Mr. Lionel Zinsou in his speech acknowledged the prominent role Nigeria plays in driving economic growth in the sub-region. Governor of Kaduna state, Nasir El-Rufai congratulated the young entrepreneurs selected for the mentorship training across Africa. He also assured them that Africa is a good place to be an entrepreneur and that the present government will transform Nigeria in four years. There was subsequently a cocktail/ networking event after where the entrepreneurs had access to interact with other entrepreneurs, their mentors on the programme and other established entrepreneurs who were invited for the programme. Speaking with Hallmark, Jude Chiemeka the Managing Director and CEO of United Capital Securities who serves as a mentor on TEEP said the initiative is unique and commendable as offers the mentees a wide range of opportunities. “It is a great opportunity for the mentees. Asides access to finance, they have financial information available to them. They get mentorship from people who have existing businesses and experience.” He further said the programme has a sustainability plan which puts in place proper monitoring scheme for the beneficiaries of the programme. Chinedu Eze a Director at Transcorp said the programme is a way of bringing out the spirit of entrepreneurship in young people. 