  TOYIN ANISULOWO, Ado-Ekiti  The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State has again petitioned the Nigeria Broadcasting Commission (NBC) over alleged misconduct by the state radio and television stations. The party, in a July 24, 2015 letter, said the management had gone worse instead of adjusting, after they were fined N500, 000 by NBC for professional misconduct. The state APC Publicity Secretary, Taiwo Olatubosun, in a statement in Ado Ekiti on Wednesday said, “There was no change in the misuse of the stations in the haunting of political opponents. “Sadly, the stations have not desisted from this unprofessional broadcast as they have continued to feed the general public with bare-faced lies against opposition members. “The station’s Director-General, Lere Olayinka, once again exhibited his habitual unprofessional conduct by approving fabricated stories against my person, for the private producers and presenters of a popular Yoruba newspaper review programme ‘Lati Inu Aka’ to broadcast on their newspaper’s review programme. “In the newspaper review on the state radio station, presented by the duo of Biodun Ilori and Kayode Falegan, they read the false story that Lere Olayinka had earlier circulated in an online junk newspaper as a newspaper story when it was not in any newspaper. “They lied that I, Taiwo Olatunbosun, the Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, has a big sore on my leg which they attributed to a spiritual attack as a result of my media criticisms of Governor Fayose over which a spiritualist had asked me to beg the governor for forgiveness. The date of this offensive broadcast was Friday July 24, 2015. Time was 8.15am to 9.00am.” Olatubosun said the offensive broadcast had caused him embarrassment as many family members and friends panicked over his health, while others saw him as a traitor who was begging Governor Fayose secretly while attacking him openly in the media. He added, “There is no iota of truth in the story but a fabricated lie from Lere Olayinka.” 