 Sokoto State governor, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, has expressed the belief that the crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) as a result of the leadership row in the National Assembly would soon be over. Tambuwal, a former speaker of the House of Representatives, is heading one of the committees set up to find amicable settlement to the crisis. He spoke with State House correspondents shortly after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari behind closed-doors at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, yesterday. He said his committee would continue its sitting on Tuesday, adding that solution is on the way. “We have commenced meetings and even today, we are going to have yet another meeting. “I believe that there is light at the end of the tunnel; peace and normalcy will be restored to the chambers of the National Assembly. “I assure you that we will continue to support Mr. President for us to deliver on our promises to the Nigerian people.” When asked to comment on the insistence of the Femi Gbajabiamila group to produce four principal officers in the House of Representatives, Tambuwal said as a mediator, he was not at liberty to pre-empt what should be the outcome of his report. On the general belief that the way he defied his party to emerge the speaker in 2011 could have contributed to what is currently playing out in the National Assembly, the governor said the lawmakers were matured enough to know what is best for the country and the party. “I should leave that to you to make your own judgement but I believe that they (the lawmakers) are all matured people, representing their various constituencies in both the Senate and the House of Representatives and they should know what is the best for the country and the party,” he said. Tambuwal said his mission in the Presidential Villa was to seek the president’s advice and rub minds with him on issues bordering on security and continued development of the country. He said the meeting was business-like as they went into issues and addressed them. Meanwhile, Governor Aminu Tambuwal has approved the creation of Social Media Unit to be domiciled in the Governor’s Office.