Worried by the spate of Boko Haram suicide bomb attacks in the country and the attendant heavy casualties, the military authorities are seeking effecting ways of responding to the threat. Adopting modalities for proactive response to the menace of suicide bombing would dominate discussions at the on-going Chief of Army Staff second quarterly conference in Abuja. While declaring the conference open yesterday, former Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Kenneth Minimah, in what turned out to be a valedictory session with officers and men of the Nigerian army, said the army would seek ways of working in synergy with other security agencies to tackle suicide bombing. “I, therefore, urge you to use the opportunity offered by this conference to deliberate on measures to enable the Nigerian army in synergy with sister services, security agencies and paramilitary organisations to adequately respond to this tactics of the terrorists,” Minimah charged participants at the conference. The army chief observed that the insurgents have resorted to suicide bombing because their ability to face troops in any form of combat had been seriously degraded. He deplored the insurgents’ choice of innocent and vulnerable targets in worship places, markets and schools for bomb attacks, describing the action as cowardly. Minimah said the conference offered the opportunity to review on-going counter insurgency operations and also to help the army prepare better for events lined up for the rest of the year. He commended Nigerians for their patriotism and nationalism in supporting the army in the counter insurgency campaign, despite the grim predictions in some quarters. He expressed appreciation to the troops, who, he said, have continued to make sacrifices in the war against terrorism. Minimah also thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for his continuous support to the Nigerian army and indeed the entire armed forces. “His sustained effort at national, regional and international levels towards addressing insecurity in the country since assumption of office has reassured us that victory over the Boko Haram terrorists is in sight,” the army chief stated. 