 The Action Group of the All Progressives Congress (APC-AG) has made a plea to President Muhammadu Buhari to put an end to the alleged fascist regime of Governor Ayodele Fayose in order for peace and the rule of law to reign in Ekiti State. In a statement by its spokesperson, Segun Dipe, the group said the action of Ekiti State governor is getting more and more embarrassing and may force members of the opposition in the state to resort to self-help if the Federal Government refuses to intervene. “A peep into the goings-on in Ekiti will readily reveal that Governor Fayose is ruling like an emperor with a belief that the state is an empire under his control and outside of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Fayose is now often quoted as saying that ‘there is no change’. In his opinion, APC and its government do not know how to use power. “Fayose is constantly in the news for all the wrong reasons. If he thinks he has monopoly of violence, impunity and grandstanding, then, this is the right time for him to think twice. He has a once-in-life-time opportunity to adjust to the new order or ship out.” According to Dipe, Fayose has made fascism an acceptable style of governance in Ekiti, with the recent arrest and false detention by the men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of the leader of the state’s market women, Madam Waye Osho, a woman, according to him, known for her progressive stance and uncompromising attitude with Fayose’s style. “What could Madam Osho, a market woman, have done to deserve such treatment? We make bold to say that her only offence was her refusal to port from APC to PDP. And the onus of proof that her arrest was not for a vendetta reason is on the state governor. “The no-love-lost relationship between Fayose and Madam Osho is not hidden. During his first term in office, he seized the vehicle donated to the market women by his predecessor in office, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, and equally detained Madam Osho. “Again, this time around, Fayose is desperate to cook up offences against the poor woman and put her away, just because she is loyal to APC. This is unacceptable in a democratic era.