 The All Progressives Congress (APC), Bayelsa State chapter, has accused the state governor, Mr. Seriake Dickson, of hiring a former state security adviser, Chief Richard Kpodo, to create crisis in the party. The APC in a statement signed by its state chairman, Chief Tiwe Oruminighe, insisted that Kpodo, who was expelled from the party, was being used by the governor to destabilize APC ahead of the 2016 governorship election. But Dickson dismissed the allegation and advised the APC to deal with its self-inflicted problems instead of trading blames. Kpodo in a press conference set up a parallel executive committee, proclaiming himself the chairman of the party. The party in the statement said it initially wanted to ignore Kpodo “for the fact that he had been expelled from the party with ignominy,” but decided to reply him for the benefits of some persons who are “oblivious of his tainted background as a blackmailer and political jobber.” APC urged the people to disregard Kpodo’s antics, describing him as a drowning man, a nuisance and a stooge in the hand of Dickson’s administration. The statement said: “It should be recalled that a few months ago, Kpodo declared that the APC in the state was dead on arrival because the party refused his demand to be made state chairman. “Since then he had been working to sabotage the party, hence he was expelled. It is now baffling that he has turned around to declare himself the state chairman of a party he said was dead on arrival! “We are not unaware of the antecedent of Kpodo. He has always lent himself useful as an agent of destabilization in state. This has been his way of life. That is why he is today being used by the Bayelsa State government to cause confusion in the APC. He will not succeed.” The party also lamented the attacks on its members by the state command of the Nigerian police. It said the command had allowed itself to be used as an agent of doom by the state government, adding that the police had been used to harass its members. “We want to let the state police command to realize that if the police have one million men, we have civilian police who are more than that, and if they are 500,000 the APC civilian police are more than a million. “We believe that we are in a democracy and it is obvious that a supposed unbiased umpire like the police is now allowing itself to be used by the state government against the opposition.”