  Employees of the Bayelsa State Ministry of the Environment and the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) were identified among the victims of the Agip pipeline explosion along Tebidaba-Clough creek line in Azuzuama area of the state. The explosion, which occurred last Friday, claimed the lives of 12 persons, while three persons were seriously injured and unspecified number of persons were declared missing. Also identified among those killed in the explosion were six staff of a maintenance team of a local company services, M.G Vogas Nigerian Limited, two Agip workers and a soldier. While the identity of the worker of the Bayelsa government could not be revealed, it was learnt that he was an indigene of Nembe, while the NOSDRA staff was an indigene of Enugu State. An indigene of the host community of Azuzuama, who was sent to accompany the Joint Investigation Visit team by the community surveillance contractors, was also burnt to death in the incident. Sources close to the Bayelsa State Ministry of Environment said though an official statement would be issued after a meeting of the state commissioners for information and environment with Governor Seriake Dickson. A text message from the Commissioner for Environment, Inuro Wills, simply stated, “It is a tragedy for us all.” Authorities of the Bayelsa State police command in its preliminary report confirmed the death of a serving military personnel in the explosion. The police spokesman, Asinim Butswat, said, “On 9/07/2015, at about 1600hrs, a pipeline exploded while Agip staff were carrying out routine maintenance at Gbaraun/Tebidaba, in Southern Ijaw LGA. “Twelve persons were burnt beyond recognition, which included a soldier on guard duty, six other bodies were recovered. Four persons were rescued alive and are undergoing treatment, while two persons are still missing. Search for the missing persons is on-going.” A visit to the Niger Delta University Teaching Hospital in Okolobiri town in Yenagoa Local Government Area, where two of the survivors were taken, showed that they had been referred to the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital in Rivers State due to the severe effect of the explosion.