 REMI ADEOYE Ever since I can remember, I have been fascinated by people who thrive later in life. Hearing about senior citizens running races, climbing mountains or embarking on their first round the world trip makes my day every time. Whenever I see healthy, vibrant men and women beyond retirement age, I try to get details of how they live their day to day. One thing l have learnt is that it’s not only how you live when you are older that makes the difference; it’s the choice you make throughout your life. Aging well comes with living well .if one grows up with healthy habits that is what will be carried in to adulthood, however according to experts it’s never too late to get healthy. Regardless of age we can learn to live well by doing these: Movement is a way of life, people who do a lot of walking, cycling, swimming or just moving are getting it right. Movement permeates every area of life. It isn’t just a scheduled activity. They never stop having fun, no matter the age or circumstances they try to find fun and live it. Don’t allow the perception that older people can’t or wouldn’t have fun exist in your dictionary. Let food be food, fresh food should be part of your daily life, don’t ever deprive yourself of foods you love; however let it be all about unprocessed food. Yes real food in moderation. Live by the pleasure principle, let enjoyment be the guiding tenet for how to live your life do what makes your body feel good and don’t apologize for it. Roll the punches when tragedy or pain strikes see it as another part of life. Idealism shouldn’t be indulged, learn to take the challenges in stride. Self-acceptance is the default; don’t have a self-imposed compulsion to pursue an unrealistic idea of perfection. Learn to be more confident. A slightly crooked nose, wider hips, wrinkles accept what you have and make the most of it. Save your energy for things you can achieve. Don’t ever let yourself go if you are a senior don’t ever neglect yourself don’t start gaining weight if you can help it or dismissing fashion or forgoing cosmetic maintenance. Let discipline become a habit don’t eat between meals, exercise regularly. Have boundaries have no problem saying no to a particular meal unless you really want to. It may come across rude to a host but if you find no pleasure in something learn to say no. There should be no age limit to sexiness, most celebrated sex symbols are natural beauties over 40 learn to be comfortable in what looks good on you don’t ever dress in a particular way because it’s what the society expects but what suits you. Be a lifelong learner try to embark on a new sport no matter your age. Newly retired should pick up a hobby or an activity. Keep it together for the (grand ) kids. It takes a village to approach to raising kids, so even as grandparents you should help out its good for you as much as its good for the grand kids Finally learn to do exactly what you  want without going overboard, nobody knows your body better than you so take things as easy as your body dictates and with time you will be able to achieve what you are supposed to achieve. A sound and beautiful mind in a healthy and beautiful body