 REMI ADEOYE. Dr. Tiamiyu, fertility practitioner and M.D of Plan B wellness center says if you have trouble getting pregnant or its taking longer than originally planned, below are some fertility dos and don’ts to help you get pregnant faster. “The biggest factor is knowing your ovulation, this can help you in timing when to baby dance as well as help you on how to conceive faster. If you don’t know your most fertile dates you can use an ovulation predicator, an ovulation monitor or something as simple as an ovulation calculation. If you haven’t pin pointed your exact day of ovulation as a general rule of thumb, you can have intercourse every other day. However keeping this up throughout the month may prove tiring,so timing sex to the day of and the day after ovulation are big steps on the road to achieving conception naturally.” He also said supplements are another option for women. “There are a number of both prescription and over the counter supplements that can assist a woman’s body to boost their fertility medication. He advised women to check with a health practitioner to see which options as best.” Tiamiyu also said that sexual positioning has a role to play in conception. According to him the best position for couples trying to conceive would be either doggy style or missionary with hips slightly elevated. Both allow for deeper penetration to ensure that the sperm is deposited as close to the egg as possible. He however cautioned that the hips must not be raised too much so as not to bypass the cervix altogether. After it all it makes sense to stay still laying down for 5-10 minutes, perhaps atop a small pillow or cushion and allow the maximum amount of time for the sperm to find its mark before getting up to go to the bathroom or walking around. “No smoking, drinking caffeine or excessive dieting. In this day and age, it goes without saying that making healthy lifestyle changes are paramount when you are on the road to conception. Simple reduction in caffeine intake proves a big boost to fertility.  There is/ also a common misconception about how weight affects your fertility when you are trying to get pregnant, having the correct weight or a little over weight is better than being too skinny. Studies have shown that nearly two thirds of women who were under weight struggle with infertility while being slightly over weight actually appears to help enhance your fertility.” Tiamiyu’s last advice was for the men, “Keep cool, no warm showers,no hot tubs, no hot laptop on your lap, no super snug underwear, no bike riding. Anything that is going to increase the warmth in the genital area will decrease the sperm count as well as their motility. Furthermore, the man should abstain from sex with their spouse for three to five days before ovulation to ensure enough sperm is built up to ensure a higher chance of conception.” 