OKUNADE ADEKUNLE  The Lagos State House of Assembly has implored the governor of the State, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode to construct an overhead bridge at Pen Cinema area connecting to Oba Ogunji Agunbiade and Iju Road in Agege Local Government, to reduce perennial gridlock in the area. The decision of the House came as a result of the motion moved by Honourable Oluyinka Ogundimu, representing Agege 11 which was seconded by Hon. Abiodun Tobun, representing Epe 1. Speaking on the motion, Ogundimu said the traffic situation around the area had negatively affected productive hours of residents, health and economic activities in the area, adding that the absence of Flyover in the area has created alot of hardships and suffering for motorists and residents and as well has negative socio-economic implications. “Motorists and commuters ply Agege axis and Pen Cinema experience daily chaotic traffic jam leading to incessant accidents, traffic gridlock, loss of lives and productive hours. Unless urgent measure is taken by the state government to address the situation, the people would continue to suffer,” said Ogundimu. The lawmaker said that Agege-Ifako Model City Plan provided for a Flyover at the cross road. “The bridge will not only reduce the sufferings of motorists and commuters in Agege but help those of Alimosho, Ikeja, Ifako-Ijaiye and Ogun State”, said Ogundimu. In his contribution, Hon. Bisi Yusuf, representing Alimosho 1 stated that the fear of congestion in that area is the beginning of wisdom for motorists and commuters in the area.” He said that traffic situation in the area had not only affected the economic activities in the area but also the security situation. “Because of the congestion, most of these hoodlums waylay the people and rob them of their property. The construction of overhead bridge in the area is overdue,” he said. While supporting the motion, Hon. Sola Giwa, representing Lagos Island 1, urged the government to consider the future plan in implementing the resolution. “We tend to only plan for the immediate need which is not good enough, without putting future explosion of population in that area into consideration.” “We should always consider the future in the development of our infrastructure,” Giwa said. Hon. Segun Olulade Epe 11 who commended the prime mover of the motion, urged the government to also look into future. Olulade said:”We should always think ahead and plan ahead into the future; whatever it will do now should not be a palliative to total remedy putting the future in mind.” Tobun, who lamented the stress and loss of man hours in the axis, said that the construction of that bridge would immortalise the government of Ambode. “If the bridge is done people will be able to reach their destination so fast and so quick, stop the nefarious activities of the men of the underworld,” Tobun said. In her view, Hon. Adefunmilayo Tejuosho said that there were about 10 Housing Estates in the area, so it is very important the government constructed the bridge. Tejuosho said that the construction would not only enhance the socio-economic activities but also the health and security of commuters and motorists. She urged Ambode to embark on the project to honour the speaker of the Assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa who represents the constituency. “It is very important the government construct this bridge. It is the least the government can do for Mr. Speaker and the people of Agege. Responding, the Speaker of the Assembly, Obasa said “even if you pass through Pen Cinema-Agege around 10:00pm and 11:00 pm, there will still be traffic jam. “The number of estates growing around Agege surpasses the infrastructure around the area. There is nothing we can do than do construct a flyover in the interests of all the people. “This House resolves to call on the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwumi Ambode to as a matter of urgency direct the appropriate ministries, agencies or board of governments to commerce appropriate actions. After a voice vote, the Speaker passed the resolution and the Assembly adjourned plenary session to September 7.  