 Daniel Amasingha-Minna Against the backdrop of rumour of impending salary deductions, thegovernor of Niger state, AlhajiAbubakarSani Bello has denied anydirective suggesting that salaries of workers in the state civilservice be deducted.
The Governor made the clarifications during the opening ceremony forthe 13th Niger State Trade Fair yesterday said claims of civilservants’ salary deductions are part of deliberate fraudulent actions
and sabotage of his government by some individuals he could not name.
While promising to punish whoever is involved in the act of deprivingworkers of their hard earned labour, Bello said his government wouldhave zero tolerance for corruption as salaries of civil servants whichhad been paid on Monday had shortfalls of N10, 000 and N20, 000 insome cases.
Bello pointed out that, “Workers’ salaries have been reduced by N10,000 and N20, 000 in some cases.
This is an unfortunate situation whichsounds and appears to me like a deliberate fraudulent action”.
Expressing doubts over the speculations that the random deductions insalary of workers in the state may be as a result of system failure,Bello set up a panel to look into the issue and report to him by nextweek Tuesday.
“It could be system failure which has reduced workers salaries‎. Bethat as it may, I have directed the Secretary to the State Government(SSG) to set up a panel with immediate effect to investigate what
actually happened and report back to be by Tuesday”.
According to him, “I do hope and pray it is a system mistake but if itis someone’s effort to deprive the workers of their salaries, whoeveris involved will be severely punished. I have resolved to move Niger
State forward and change the ways of the past”.
Bello however warned government workers who are desperate to makeextra money to do so in a legitimate way, reminding them that ‘it is acrime to shortchange civil servants due to desperate desire to makemore money at all cost’.
“If you are a government worker and you want to make money, you canstart your company or business and make legitimate money but if youuse your position to fill up your pockets, you will face the music ifI catch you”, the Governor pointed out.
While reiterating his desire to fight corruption in line withPresident MuhammaduBuhari’s resolution to put an end to corrupttendencies especially in government circle in Nigeria, Bello said hehad resolved that no act of corruption will go unpunished in NigerState.