 …as army repels another attack on COAS hometown At least 25 people were killed by suspected Boko Haram militants during raids on three communities in Borno State on Monday afternoon and Tuesday morning. Military and police sources confirmed the attack to newsmen. The main village attacked was Dille, along with two smaller communities in the Askira/Uba Local Government Area in southern Borno. There has been no week that the insurgents have not struck since May 29 when Muhammadu Buhari was sworn in as president. Buhari will be travelling to Cameroon today to hold talks with President Paul Biya on how both countries can put an end to the sect’s six-year campaign of violence. Buhari had earlier met with the presidents of Chad and Niger and also discussed with world leaders at a recent G7 summit in Germany. He also sought the assistance of the United States (US) during his trip to the country last week. In a related development, the acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sani Usman, has said troops foiled two attempts by the Boko Haram insurgents on the home town of the Chief of Army Staff, Maj. Gen. Tukur Buratai, Buratai, on Monday night. Usman said in an electronic mail on Tuesday that the insurgents struck at the town around 9.30p.m but were repelled by the soldiers on duty. The desperate terrorists were said to have returned to make another attempt on the town, which was also foiled by the troops. The army acting spokesman said the insurgents also made an attempt on a military camp in the area without success. This is the fourth time the insurgents were attacking Buratai town since February 2014. Buratai was the Commander of the Joint Task Force in the Niger Delta when the insurgents attacked his town in 2014. “For about the fourth time since February 2014, Boko Haram terrorists moved against Buratai, the home town of Chief of Army Staff, Major General Tukur Buratai, last night, which is also the location of a military camp. “In their desperate attempt to capture the town, the invaders struck at about 9.30p.m but were repelled by soldiers. “The terrorists returned again at about 3.00a.m and were equally pushed back,” the statement read in part. 