EVEREST EZIHE, Owerri
Despite the predictions that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) might not be able to regain its lost glory politically in view of its defeat in the last elections, Hon. Henry Nwawuba has insisted that with the transformational agenda being pursued by the leadership of PDP at all levels the party will soon bounce back united, stronger and focused. Nwawuba who is representing Mbaitoli Ikeduru federal constituency in the House of Representatives disclosed this in Abuja on Thursday while interacting with Journalists on the chances of the party regaining its prime of place in subsequent elections in Nigeria.
He pointed out that the failure of the party to capture some states of the federation and the Presidency in 2015 general elections is a big lesson the party will not forget so easily and deserved realistic strategic actions for rebuilding.
The federal lawmaker informed that PDP has identified her mistakes and weakness and is seriously re-positioning by turning all the lapses into strength.
Nwawuba who is also an apostle of qualitative representation in his “Expect More” vision, observed that one of the banes of PDP during the last general elections was lack of internal democracy.
He promised to use his global experiences to ensure that henceforth the party does things right by considering the feelings and opinions of the populace. The youthful political strategist however observed that historically, political party’s at certain period in their life time are subjected to a lot of travails and challenges and its ability to withstand the
storms makes the party virile and strong, saying PDP can never be an exception.
The PDP chieftain further attributed political party’s problems to the selfish interest of most political godfathers and gladiators and advocated the need for regular consultations with all the principal stakeholders.
He also advised on the need to accord due respect to democratic ethos and principles, noting it as the antidote for guaranteeing sustainable democracy and stability in the polity. It will be recalled that since the result of the 2015 general elections have been announced by INEC and the table overwhelming favoured the new All Progressives Congress (APC) as against the old war horse-PDP, political pundits and commentators have been predicting doom for the PDP in subsequent elections.
They accused PDP of impunity, arrogance, and flgrant abuse of law and due processes among other things, while given kudos to APC for being people and grassroots oriented.  *Crisis rocks PDP over new INEC chief*
The recent appointment of the Acting Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mrs. Amina Zakari, by President Muhammadu Buhari, has deepened the crisis within the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It would be recalled that the PDP had kicked against the appointment, alleging that Zakari “is too close” to President Buhari and an unnamed Governor in one of the states in the Northwest elected on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
In a July 1 statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Chief Olisa Metuh, the PDP had called for the immediate removal of Zakari. But a swift reaction to the PDP’s position, however, Metuh’s deputy, Mallam Abdullahi Jalo, had disagreed with the party and challenged the PDP to produce the minutes of the said National Working Committee meeting in which the party claimed the decision was taken. Jalo had queried the appropriateness of the party’s position, saying while there was need to play the role of opposition, such role, he said, must be played with decorum.
He had warned the PDP against creating unnecessary enmity for the party within the INEC and the northern region where Zakari hailed from. Jalo had also reminded his party that the new INEC boss was appointed into the commission by former President Goodluck Jonathan in the first place, and not by President Buhari.
According to him, it was inappropriate for the PDP to object to the appointment, because the appointee was promoted to become the Acting Chairman of the electoral body.
“Zakari was appointed by a member of our party, former President Goodluck Jonathan into the commission and that time, we didn’t raise objection. “Why now that she was elevated to lead the commission briefly when she is due to retire soon, that we are now talking about her alleged closeness to some people?
“We should be careful of what we say or do. We are begging people to come and join us, yet, by our actions we are creating more enemies,” Jalo stated.
Apparently miffed by Jalo’s outburst, the party’s NWC summoned him for investigation “for bringing the party into disrepute.” The invitation letter, dated July 8, 2015 and signed by the party’s National Secretary, Prof. Wale Oladipo, directed Jalo to appear before the party leaders on Wednesday, July 15, at 12 noon.
The letter reads, “The attention of the NWC has been brought to your recent unguarded utterances in some of the Nigerian newspapers. The NWC therefore, has requested you to appear at its meeting for preliminary investigation on the charge of bringing the party into disrepute among others.”
But speaking yesterday, Jalo said he had yet to get the letter and that he would respond appropriately after collecting it at the party secretariat.