By Ezugwu Obinna Leaders of the Igbo ethnic group have variously condemned the purported demolition of parts of the popular Ladipo Spare Parts Market by the authorities of Mushin Local Government Area of Lagos State, describing it as an act of injustice. Speaking on the development, the President of Igbo Cultural Society of Nigeria, Chief Udo Udeogaranya, noted that it was unfair and contrary to the provisions of the Nigerian constitution for the authorities of Mushin Local Government to demolish any part of the market for whatever reason considering that there was still a pending court case in relation the issues. “The actions of the local government are not right, it is wrong for any person or persons who claim to be running a government to go and act in the night, if you have issues with any market group, no matter much merit you have on your own side, a government ought to give proper notice and proper consultations before taking action.” “If you lock people’s shops and cut their source of livelihood, are you not increasing the risk of insecurity of the state? Because they have to survive, my suggestion is that at a time when Nigeria is talking about job creation, government should be the last to deny people their means of livelihood. It is not right and we condemn it,” Udeogaranya said. Also reacting, a former governorship aspirant in the state under the platform of the All Progressive Congress, Chief Robert Okoroji who explained that he has been following the matter, noted that the action was a calculated attempt to punish those that are perceived to be members of the opposition People Democratic Party (PDP). “I have been following the matter, and I think it is a well thought out plan to punish those believed to have supported the PDP in the last election. The destruction is contrary to law. The lack of due process in ejecting tenants either by government or individuals is contrary to the provisions of the law, and we are talking about meeting international best practices. This is just a tip of the iceberg; it is part of what the APC government has planned to do those that are perceived to have supported PDP. “The perception is that the Igbo speaking people and other eastern non indigenes in Lagos are PDP supporters and wherever they have interest, the government will interfere and frustrate those interests.  I have nothing against a local government taking possession or improving on the structure of a particular market provided the process is done according to law that is my concern.” Okoroji insisted that the matter was still in court, stating that the demolition amounted to jungle justice. “It is not just enough to say that the person that was granted lease of the property is also an Igbo man, it is not enough justification. The issue of whether he is an Igbo man does not arise; the local government has done something that is unlawful. “I know that there is a pending matter in court and that matter hasn’t been finally determined, the local government shouldn’t have gone ahead to demolish or forcefully eject lawful tenants.  It is a wrong for which the Lagos State Government and the Mushin Local Government should be held accountable. It is jungle justice; this has to be a civilized society. But this jungle justice gives you an idea of what the operators of the system are.” He also accused the authorities of using their control of the media to hide their wrongs.  “What they did is wrong but they use their control of the media to deceive people and make them believe it is right. No court gave them the order to do what they have done, but they are now saying that those who are affected should go to court. It paints a clear picture of who we are dealing with. “I advice those affected to proceed to court and claim damages against the perpetrators. They should not use violence to pay violence. The court are open, if they are not convinced they will get justice within the Lagos judicial system, there are the federal courts. Let the court tell us whether violence is justified in any means. The Lagos State Government should do the right things; it has a duty to protect the rights of all the people in the state.” Okoroji concluded. The Mushin Local Government has meanwhile issued a statement denying the demolition, a statement released by the executive secretary of the council, Hon. Jide Bello, read that business activities went on as usual on the said day of demolition, but stated that the local government has decided to redevelop the market which according to him was overdue due to the unpleasant activities of some of the traders and the degradation of the surrounding which did not fit into the mega city plans of the state. “The authorities of the Mushin Local Government convened several meetings with the leaders of the various associations in the market towards ensuring that the private developer commences the phased development but it was evident from the body language of the leaders that they were buying time and trying to frustrate the plan of the Local Council to redevelop the market”.