  Ezugwu Obinna  The South East chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has advised Ndigbo to allow President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to take shape before jumping into conclusion on whether or not the Igbo are going to be marginalized by his government. The Imo State Government Liaison Officer in Lagos State and a chieftain of the party in the zone, Mr. Alfred Ononubo, who gave this advice at a press briefing organized in preparation for the grand reception of the state governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, insisted that the poor situation of the country required that the president takes time to appoint competent people into positions. He explained that the appointments made so far by Buhari were based purely on merit as opposed to ethnic or religious patronage. “It is too early to begin to make deductions; the fact that APC stands for merit underscores the situation on ground at the moment. I think we should allow this government to find its feet. “We have studied the situation of the country, we met a totally broken down infrastructure and there are people from the South East that are competent enough to handle assignments and I think we should allow our leaders time to address the challenges ahead and make appropriate selections. “We are too hasty in judging a government that is barely three months that it is discriminating against the Igbo. That is not correct,” Ononubo said. He further explained that the decision of the South East APC to host Okorocha as well as other leaders of the party in the zone on July 25 at the National Arts Theatre, Lagos, was informed on the need for Ndigbo to celebrate their leaders and honour those they look up to politically. He also noted that the party would use the opportunity to tell the whole world that the South East has embraced APC, while explaining that the Igbo have come of age in the field of politics. Dignitaries expected at the event include the party’s national leader, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu; Vice President Yemi Osibanjo; Lagos governor, Akinwumi Ambode; his Ogun State counterpart, Ibikunle Amosun, as well as Chief Ogbonnaya Onu. 