  *Buratai warns troops against cowardice, indiscipline  USMAN IBRAHIM  At least five people were killed yesterday by a car suicide bomb at a checkpoint on the outskirts of Damaturu, capital of Yobe State, witnesses and a hospital source said. The checkpoint is on a major highway that connects the city with Borno State capital, Maiduguri. The road and villages along it are frequently hit by bombs or raids by suspected members of Islamist jihadi group Boko Haram. “We were stopped by the army at a checkpoint. There was an SUV (sports utility vehicle) about five cars away from us. I believe five people were in that car. “One came out and suddenly there was a loud sound and smoke filled the air,” Ahmed Mohammed, who was driving towards Damaturu from Maiduguri, said. A hospital source said they had received five bodies and were treating three people for injuries. On Thursday, at least nine people were killed in Damaturu by a young female suicide bomber as worshippers gathered to mark the Muslim holiday Eid el-Fitr. Fifty people were killed by bombs last Friday in Gombe. Boko Haram controlled a swathe of land around the size of Belgium at the end of 2014, but were pushed out of most of that territory by Nigerian troops, with military help from neighbouring Chad, Niger and Cameroon. But while they are dispersed, the militants are still able to carry out attacks in Nigeria and neighbouring countries. President Muhammadu Buhari has flown to the United States to meet with President Barack Obama to discuss increased U.S. military assistance to quash the insurgency. Meanwhile, the new Chief of Army Staff, Maj. Gen. Turkur Buratai, has warned troops against acts of indiscipline and cowardice in the on-going campaign against the Boko Haram insurgents in the North East. Buratai also urged the commanders to ensure a prompt and timely response to distress calls from communities in the besieged areas. The Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sani Usman, said in a statement on Monday that the COAS made the comment during a visit to troops of 103 Battalion, Nigerian Army, Konduga, Borno State, on Sunday. Usman said the army chief also renamed the military operation in the North East from ‘Operation Zaman Lafiya’ to ‘Operation Lafiya Dole’ as part of the efforts to intensify the onslaught against the insurgents in the area. He added that the change of name was to send out a strong message to the insurgents that they would not be allowed to perpetrate their heinous crimes in the region. According to him, Buratai used the opportunity of his visit to assure the troops of the Federal Government’s commitment to the provision of necessary equipment for the fight against the insurgency. Buratai, who briefed the troops about his vision for the army and resolve to end the insurgency, commended them for their resilience and bravery. 