  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to stop taking Nigerians for granted and begin the process of providing leadership. Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Alhaji Abdullahi Jalo, said this in a telephone interview with our correspondent, in Abuja, on Wednesday. He was responding to an earlier statement by the National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, on Tuesday. Mohammed had in the statement, declared that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration had within its six weeks in power restored the Nigerian dream. In response, Jalo said Nigerians were still waiting for the change the APC promised because the unemployed graduates and the aged were still waiting to be paid the N5,000 monthly stipend promised by the APC. He explained that it was now a known fact that the PDP administration did not leave an empty treasury like it was being speculated. The PDP deputy publicity scribe said, “Nigerians are still expecting the change the APC promised. It is not a time to make excuses, Nigerians want results. “Where is the N5, 000 they promised unemployed graduates and our old people? They said our government left an empty treasury. Where did the money for the bailout of states come from?” The APC had said actions so far taken by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration had restored the confidence of the citizenry in government. Mohammed explained that all fair minded Nigerians would agree that the Buhari administration had since settled down to business. He said Buhari was addressing, in a very methodical way, the challenges of insecurity, corruption and the economy. “The bailout this administration has provided to states has calmed tension and averted a nationwide industrial unrest, his shuttle diplomacy and relocation of the Army High Command to Maiduguri has weakened the cohesive and organised striking capacity of the Boko Haram hence the resort to cowardly suicide bombings and attacks on soft targets. “The recent appointments of service chiefs will definitely quicken the death of Boko Haram.” 