  In order to prevent leakages, mismanagement and outright corruption in tertiary institutions in Nigeria, the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Lamorde, has recommended an urgent review of the internally generated revenue (IGRs) of higher institutions in the country. He lamented the lack of accountability in the management of IGRs of higher institutions in the country.
Larmode said this at the EFCC anti-corruption sensitization programme organized in conjunction with the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) for rectors and provosts of polytechnics in Nigeria at the NBTE Centre of Excellence (COE), Kajuru Close, Kaduna.
In his address titled, ‘We Must Collaborate to Eradicate Corruption in Education’, Lamorde, who expressed his gratitude to Dr. Mas’udu Adamu Kazaure, Executive Secretary of NBTE for putting together the interactive session, further charged the management of technical education in Nigeria to make transparency and accountability their guiding principles.
He added: “Let me remind us that time does not run out on criminal investigation and prosecution. Therefore, if you neglect to do what you should today, EFCC may come knocking on your door. Make transparency and accountability your guiding principles today or you will be held accountable for your failure to check corruption in your institution, even long after you have left it”
Larmode stated further: “It bears repeating that a nation is only as good as its educational sector. Therefore, it is incumbent on all of us to bring all our activities within the realms of the rule of law and to lead by example in transparency, openness and accountability in realization of the fact that we hold office today in trust for the public. We are keen to help model and showcase not just the NBTE, but all institutions under it as key players and shining examples of the fight against fraud and corruption in the education sector.’’
Meanwhile, the Executive Secretary of the NBTE, Dr Mas’udu Adamu Kazaure, said the interactive session was aimed at sensitizing the rectors and provosts of the activities of the EFCC and how not to fall victims of financial crimes and similar offences.
Kazure gave a breakdown of the number of institutions under the regulation of NBTE as 512, explaining further that the sensitization could not have come at a better time than now with the change in the country’s administration being led by a president known to have zero tolerance for corruption.
“This interactive session was aimed at sensitizing the rectors and provosts of the activities of the EFCC and how not to fall victims of financial crimes and similar offences. There are 512 higher institutions under this board and we see now as the best time for us to organize this sensitization programme since we have a president that has zero tolerance for corruption”, said Kazaure. 