 Lagos State police command is known as one of the performing commands in the country. The command is definitely facing daunting task because of the level and sophistication of crime in Lagos State. This is a problem for residents and businesses. In the past 10 months, the command has been faced squarely with the problem of increased armed robbery and kidnapping, which have overstretched its operatives. In those 10 months, under the astute leadership of Commissioner of Police Kayode Aderanti, the command stood tall in confronting the new wave of criminality that confronted it, especially as the men of the under world went berserk in their activities. No doubt, this was not a simple task for Aderanti and his men. They dedicatedly rescued the state from the jaws of men of the underworld. However, the gallant police officer has been redeployed to the Force Administrative Department in Abuja to continue in his giant strides. CP Aderanti, who assumed office as Lagos commissioner of police on September 9, 2014, hit the ground running by initially improving on the security architecture of the command he inherited. Noticeably, two major sections of the command’s security architecture were his focus when he came on board. He was able to ensure that Lagos remained safe for businesses and residents, while he put in place all necessary structures to ensure a hitch-free 2015 general elections. During the general elections, ballot box snatching by thugs unlike in other states was not recorded. As he assumed office, he engaged the private sector players, most especially the banks and telecommunications operators, who in turn helped by donating logistic materials and communication gadgets which were used to float the Tactical Operations Unit which is now in operation. In his passing out cum valedictory session at the command headquarters in Ikeja, Aderanti explained that his achievements could not have been possible without the enduring cooperation of his team through the engagement of diligent investigation and deployment of cutting edge technology to fish out the people of the underworld. He explained further that through diligence of his men they were able to arrest a five-man armed robbery gang led by one Mahmud AbdulAkeem. He said they recovered 15 stolen vehicles from different locations including Abuja, Port Harcourt and Benin City. Aderanti added that the command under his watch brought to book the notorious gang which specialised in car snatching. “We are able to smash and arrest a seven-man armed robbery gang led by one Manven Bali that snatched a Honda CRV Jeep on 17th January, 2015, belonging to Channels Television”, said Aderanti. He added further that three other cars, arms and ammunition were also recovered from the gang. “On the 18th January, 2015, we arrested an eight-man armed robbery gang that specialises in trans-border banditry led by one Samuel Igbi. Two AK47 rifles, eleven loaded AK47 magazines and one Sienna Space bus which is the gang’s operational vehicle were recovered”. “We also arrested a four-man armed robbery/illegal arms dealers’ gang led by one Andrew Moukwue and recovered three AK47 rifles, two each of berretta and brownie pistols. “During our ten months’ leadership of this command, we cannot erase our achievement in the area of the arrest of fake EFCC personnel. On the 27th February of this year, a six-man gang of armed robbers who also operate as fake EFCC personnel led by one Princewell Eze, a.k.a Senator Nwobodo, was arrested. We recovered six exotic cars, one bryco pistol with six rounds of ammunition, four million naira cash (N4,000,000,00) and thirteen thousand US dollars ($13,000)”, disclosed Aderanti. He said that his leadership of the command was able to fight crime to its barest minimum, stating further that his men were able to rescue a 15-year-old teenager sold into sex slavery in Libya by her supposed uncles and the subsequent arrest of two of the suspects. He added that the girl was first kidnapped on May 25, 2014. “To our credit, we were able to arrest a four-man gang led by one Ibrahim Adefemi and recovered one Highlander Jeep earlier snatched by the gang along Ajah Expressway on 29th April, 2015. Two AK47 magazines loaded with ammunition were as well recovered from them”. The rescue of the three Orekoya kids, who were kidnapped by their nanny, cannot be erased from his contributions. It would be recalled that on April 8, 2015, three kids of the Orekoya family in Surulere, Lagos were kidnapped but the Lagos police command was able to rescue the kids and as well arrested the nanny on April 15, 2015. He went on to state that his command was able to arrest the gang members that robbed FCMB on Admiralty Way, Lekki on Thursday, March 12, this year and recovered from them the two phones robbed from some of the bank staff. One of his major successes that buttress his modest effort at ensuring that Lagos remained safe was the arrest of four members of the gang that robbed the two banks in Ikorodu on June 1 and 24, 2015. Aderanti, however, urged the members of his team to give more support to his successor bearing in mind that the safety of Lagos remains the most paramount thing as always. Aderanti has been replaced by CP Owoseni Ajayi.