TOYIN ANISULOWO, Ado-Ekiti The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State has advised Governor Ayodele Fayose to ignore the All Progressives Congress’ criticisms and focus on his developmental projects because they (APC) have nothing to offer. The party commended the governor for his achievements so far in the face of “war against him” by the opposition party in the state. A statement by the state Chairman, Chief Idowu Faleye, listed the progress of construction work at Aduni Olayinka Centre in Ado Ekiti and road from Irewumi-Iworoko road through Olorunsogo trade fair as parts of the achievements. “It could only take a courageous man to still have time to think about development of his state with the kind of war that was waged against the Governor by the former APC lawmakers. “We commend the governor for his astuteness, bold steps and love of the people of Ekiti State in spite of the confrontations by the black minded fifth columnists and their agents of retardation as being represented by the opposition APC in the state. “What we are saying is that the Governor should not bother himself with the antics of the APC because they don’t have any good thing to offer the state except creating chaos where there is none as they did in government in the past,” the statement added. Meanwhile, the APC has slammed Fayose over his comment that the N2.1 billion accruable to Ekiti State from the N413.7 billion ($2.1bn) dividend and tax paid by Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas to Federal Government was not a bailout to the state. The state Publicity Secretary of the APC, Taiwo Olatubosun, in a statement said “it was ingratitude taken too far.” “This is an irresponsible statement coming from a governor over which his colleague governors, labour unions and all well meaning Nigerians were full of gratitude to the President for the bailout. Fayose as usual, is up to one of his antics whenever money is involved. “His statement that Ekiti wage bill is N2.6billion has given him away as a liar who wants to short change Ekiti people again. “For the avoidance of doubt, the wage bill of Ekiti State workers is N1.6 billion Naira and if we include subventions to higher institutions, pensions and political appointees’ salaries which is N600 million Naira, everything amounts to N2.2 billion Naira. We wonder where Fayose got the figure if N2.6 billion,” Olatunbosun added.