 Austin Fair Suddenly the rhythm has changed. It now sounds monotonous, sort of. Seun, my newspaper vendor, was one of those that were caught by the bug called ‘change’ which coincided with the fall of the Peoples Democratic Party-led. government of Dr Goodluck Jonathan. Although the gentleman bowed out honourably at the end of the hotly-contested Presidential election, he is still being praised for not towing the footsteps of people like Robert Mugabe, Pierre Nkuriziza of Burundi and other African despots who would rather let innocent blood flow than leave the seat of government. But the perfect gentleman called Jonathan would not subscribe to that. ”No one life is worth wasting because of who takes over the reigns of government,” he reasoned. And for ever, it will remain indelible in the history books no matter the intrigues of the enemies around to misinterpret same and drag his name to the mud. Yes, Jonathan may have become history as ”change” took over but from the look of things it’s only transient. The visibility of the so-called ‘change’ has become a mystery. Like Seun, my landlady too, and other concerned citizens who were coerced into believing in it and swallowing it, hook, line and sinker, are bemused. Confusion is the word now! ”I thought that they were serious. But from what I’m seeing, they had no good plans prior to the elections. They only succeeded in deceiving us,” Tunde Thomas, a landlord who threatened to ‘sack’ any tenant that did not recite the ‘change’ anthem then soberly enthused on the changing times. ”I think they used the word to deceive the masses who were agonizing over the general hardship that is not peculiar to Nigeria. All they wanted was victory but you can see that upon getting it, they don’t know what to do with it again. They’re like gangsters that robbed a bank and fell apart during the loot sharing,” Uche Okeke, a public affairs commentator said. There is no gainsaying the fact that change has lost steam. It now sounds like mockery. I mean, beckon on any of its harbingers before the elections and just one month after the incumbent took control and he will want to hand a curse to you! It seems as ”change” has reached its final bus stop. It has achieved what it came to do in Nigeria’s nascent democracy but funny enough, in a very shameful and unexpected manner. The six-letter word which rattled everybody and received different interpretations by the then ruling party’s megaphones’ flop may not be unconnected with inactivity in government. Boko Haram, power failure, fuel scarcity, corruption and other vices are still at the mountainous level. Yet these are things they swore that they would exterminate within days in office. I will not subscribe to the assertions made by the Presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) that it’s the result of the helmsman’s old age and level of education during a radio programme recently. There is still time but the question is if ‘change’ can ever be sustained again. Will Nigerians, nay its ”addicts” marvel at it again. The truth is that Nigerians are impatient people. Although they value life a lot, they hate hunger, insecurity and stress. So, as these monsters persist, it’s like the Nunch dimities has been rendered to ”change”. It is either dead or in a coma now.  