  DAVID-CHYDDY ELEKE, Awka  Anambra State governor, Willie Obiano, has described as irresponsible governors who “sleep” without paying the salaries of workers in their states. Obiano stated this at the Jerome Udoji secretariat, Awka, the state capital, during the 2015 Civil Service Day celebration, where he reassured the state workers of regular salaries despite the prevailing economic difficulties. The theme of the celebration was ‘The Role of the Public Service in Women Empowerment, Innovation and Accessible Service Delivery’. The governor, who described the civil service as the cornerstone of his administration, said, “No responsible government goes to sleep when its workforce is having sleepless nights.” He said in the past one year, his administration had demonstrated a great deal of sensitivity to the plight of workers. . “A few weeks after I was sworn in as your governor, we took bold steps to look into the difficulties workers were having in transporting themselves to Awka from various parts of the state. “Consequently, we provided four buses to convey workers from Onitsha, Otuocha, Nnewi and Ekwulobia to and from Awka. We also donated three buses to NLC, NUC and JNC. “Similarly, less than one year into my administration, we increased workers’ salaries by 15 percent. “I also assured you that I would do more if our internally generated revenue grows. Interestingly, we increased salaries at a time when oil prices were crashing and governments were looking for bailouts. “In spite of the prevailing difficulties, we have kept our promise to always pay your salaries regularly.” He said that the government was able to clear the salaries of Water Corporation staff that were outstanding for three years. Obiano added also that the government ensured that promotion and conversion of some categories of workers were done in their due time. “We did not hesitate to review the case of the 135 staff of ABS that was laid off just before my administration came into place. We made sure that the affected staffs were all re-absorbed into the system,” he said. He said that the overall economic and social health of any state could be effectively gauged from the condition of its civil servants. He stressed the need to take stock and reflect on how to move the state forward, and described the theme as apt and imperative. Obiano urged the workers to put in their best in the service of the state.  