  AUSTIN FAIR NWAULU He is one of the raves of the moment with a massive fan-base. Since he joined the hip-hop music queue a few years back, David Adeleke, better known as Davido in the arena, has consistently maintained a status that surpasses what even the oldies therein have not been able to attain. Already a multiple award winner, with many hit songs that make a lot of impact both within and outside the shores of the country, he is just in his early 20s and in a class of his own. But the ”Omo Babalowo” (son of a rich man) who recently graduated from Babcock University, (majoring in Music) and star of many august events, is currently in a big mess. It is no longer news to many that his recently-released video ”Fans Ml” contains offensive scenes with the display of a substance suspected to be hard drugs but the fact that he may soon get summoned by the National Drug Law enforcement Agency (NDLEA) to defend it rattles many souls. What it means is that if the ”Aye” crooner is found wanting, drastic measures would be taken against him despite his pride and position. And, he will not be the first act to be so disciplined. In America and the entire western world, many of the popular players who indulged in similar acts have been subjected to one form of penalty or the other. Even our own Afrobeat legend, Fela Anikulapo Kuti, also paid dearly over alleged cases of being in possession of Indian hemp severally. The latest is that the NDLEA has constituted a committee that will grill Davido at a date soon to be announced and the prayer is that he leaves there unscathed. ”Without trying to pre-empt the investigation, the substance under question may just be mere stunts derived from a source other than drugs. It is left for him to defend himself at the appropriate time and date,” Soji Adekunle, a stakeholder of the music industry said. And for Kingsley Haruna, a blogger, ”if it is discovered that there was nothing like hard drugs in the work, they would have succeeded in creating a big hype for the song’s success. Everybody would like to buy it and you know what that means.” Others however believed that if the worst happens with the singer being convicted at the end of the day with say, a jail term, his fans may not take it lying low, ”except that doing so will amount to aiding and abetting crime,” one of them interjected. Everybody has become apprehensive, waiting for how it pans out eventually. 