National Examinations Council (NECO) has denied the report published in last Tuesday of Daily Sun, which alleged that the recently concluded 2015 National Common Entrance Examination (NCEE) was marred with irregularities. A statement issued by the council and signed by its Head of Information Division, Azeez Sani, described the report as completely unfounded. It added that the examination conducted in 420 centres was not, in any way, marred with irregularities, as it was monitored by competent supervisors and invigilators across the country as well as Dr. MacJohn Nwaobiala, permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, who represented the Minister of Education, the Registrar/Chief Executive of the Council, Prof. Monday Tommy Joshua, and senior staff of both the Federal Ministry of Education (FME) and National Examinations Council. “It is worthy to note that during the time and until date, there had not been any reported case of irregularities from any of the teeming stakeholders in Nigeria’s education sector,” the statement noted. “Also, and more particularly, there has not been any such report from any of the NECO state officers and field officers who superintended over the conduct of the said examination in their respective states and examination centres. “Moreso, since the re-introduction of second screening test by the Federal Ministry of Education in 2014, its monitoring exercise had remained the exclusive prerogative of the ministry. It is, therefore, curious how the reporter got and analysed his records to conclude that the 2015 NCEE was marred by irregularities.” Describing the report as ‘misleading’, it urged the public to disregard it, noting that NECO remained ever poised to conduct transparent, trusted and credible examination in line with its ethos which enjoined it to deliver examinations whose results were trusted worldwide for their credibility. For those, who are awaiting the result of this year’s National Common Entrance Examination, the statement noted that its has since been released on Thursday, April 30, 2015 to the Federal Ministry of Education, Abuja.  Culled from Sun