ISESELE EZEKIEL, Benin  Edo State Governor, Adams Oshiomole on Tuesday suspended the new Chairman of Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo, Mr Alassa Mohammed few minutes after assuming office.  The governor swore in the chairman but immediately announced his suspension over what he described as Mohammed’s ‘’abominable’’ conduct against the former chairman of the council who died on Saturday.  Oshiomhole said that while the late chairman, Mr Hassan Kadiri, was at the hospital, Mohammed, who was vice chairman, organised a protest against him, demanding his sack so that he could take over as chairman of the council.  Kadiri died in Auchi and was buried immediately, according to Islamic injunction. The governor said that he was constrained to swear in Mohammed because it was statutory, adding, however, that he had to suspend him because his action against the deceased was “despicable”. According to him, Mohammed’s action against the late chairman was wicked, unethical and unacceptable as it was wrong for any man to play God and instigate people against a bedridden fellow.  He said that Mohammed’s action was irresponsible and that no civilized government would accept such act, not even out of sentiment.  He said that he swore in ‘’the new chairman under the Local Government Amended Act” just as he was suspending the ‘’new chairman under the same Act, with immediate effect”. Oshiomhole disclosed that the government would, as a matter of urgency, set up a committee to investigate the allegations levelled against the new chairman and if indicted, would remain suspended and face the full weight of the law.  He pointed out that it was wrong for anyone to jubilate over the downfall of another, adding that the suspension would last for not more than two months pending the submission of the report by the panel. He announced that while Mohammed remained suspended, the new Vice Chairman, Mr Busari Yusuf, also sworn in by him, would act as chairman.  He directed that Yusuf should perform all obligations and responsibilities of a chairman.  