All Nigerian Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools, ANCOPSS, has warned the federal and state governments against continued politicisation of the education sector. The association said such attitude portends grave danger for the future of education. Consequently, it called for an increased commitment from government and communities toward ensuring that schools were adequately funded and staffed to actualise the dream for e-learning and self-employment for students. President of the group, Dr Fatima Abdulrahman, who read the communiqué at the end of the 58th National Congress of the body, said many principals could no longer use their discretion in the implementation of education curricula due to political influences from government. According to her, “Education should not be used to canvass votes, but should be taken seriously. We don’t want to declare free education and you go to those schools and won’t find education materials.” According to her, principals of secondary schools, at the congress, observed that there seemed to be much insincerity in the invitation by government to communities to be involved in curriculum implementation. The national president lamented that the problem of poor staffing in schools, especially in the trade subjects, cuts across the length and breadth of the country. Abdulrahman further lamented that though the near single-handed curriculum implementation by government had yielded some measure of academic improvement, there was no corresponding moral improvement among the students. She said government was often in a hurry to have schools implement new educational policies without sufficient test-running, noting that inadequate involvement of the community in curriculum development hindered its full implementation. She said: “Government should come out more boldly to make all and sundry know that education with curriculum implementation inclusive can no longer be the sole responsibility of government. “Education should not be used to canvass votes; education should be taken seriously. “Education should not be politicized, nor toyed with. Education is a capital intensive project. The benchmark, according to UNESCO, is 26 percent of budget but some states allocate less. “If at all we want quality education, it should be adequately funded.”