Former President Olusegun Obasanjo was among former Nigeria leaders that attended Tuesday’s Council of State meeting held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. However, the former president entered the Council Chamber venue of the meeting at 12.10pm, about 40 minutes behind schedule.  The meeting started at 11.30am after the arrival of President Goodluck Jonathan. Other former Nigeria leaders that attended the meeting are – the President-elect, Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, Ibrahim Babangida, Abdulsalami Abubakar and Chief Ernest Shonekan. Yesterday’s meeting will be the last under the outgoing President Jonathan. The state governors at the meeting are – Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Olusegun Mimiko (Ondo), Aliyu Wamakko (Sokoto), Rotimi Amaechi (Rivers), Ramalan Yero (Kanuda), Sarieke Dickson (Bayelsa), James Ngilari (Adamawa), Tanko Almakura(Nasarawa) and Gabriel Suswam(Benue). Others are – Martin Elechi (Ebonyi), Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom), Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara), Babangida Aliyu (Niger), Jonah Jang (Plateau) Liyel Imoke(Cross River), and Acting governor of Taraba State. Kano, Kogi, Oyo and Yobe States were represented by their deputy governors. The Senate President, David Mark, Speaker of the House of Representatives, and former Chief Justices of Nigeria including Muhammadu Uwais, Alfa Belgore and Idris Kutigi were also the meeting. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Anyim Pius Anyim, National Security Adviser (NSA), Sambo Dasuki and the Chief of Staff to the President, Jones Arogbofa also attended the meeting. Opening Christian and Muslim prayers were said by the governors of Cross Rivers and Kaduna respectively. Meanwhile, President Goodluck Jonathan will on May 28 lead the President-elect, Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, on tour of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. This was disclosed by Benue State Governor, Gabriel Suswam, while briefing State House correspondents at the end of the Council of State meeting in Abuja. He briefed journalists alongside the Niger State Governor, Babangida Aliyu. Aliyu said the handing over notes will be handed over to the President-elect on May 28, while dinner will be held on the same day. The inauguration of the new government, Suswam said, will take place on May 29. According to the governor, several leaders within and outside the content will attend the inauguration as invitation cards and all arrangements have been made for that purpose.