Ambode creates Employment Ministry Kunle Awosiyan In his bid to ease the problem of unemployment in Lagos, the State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode has announced the creation of a new department to be called the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment. He disclosed this shortly after he took the oath of office at his inauguration as the 8th governor of the state on Friday. He said, “As part of our reforms, a new Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment shall be established. This would specifically address the promise I made during the campaign on employment trust fund, labour exchange and entrepreneurship. This goal, we shall pursue vigorously. According to him, a new Office of Overseas Affairs and Investment (LAGOS GLOBAL) shall be created under the Governor’s Office, adding, “I want to assure the business community and corporate Lagos that the ease of doing business in Lagos will be improved upon earnestly.  Lagos is open for greater business.To this end, “We want you to fly into Lagos, start your business, find your way, live, work and enjoy in Lagos. Ambode also stated that the Office of Civic Engagement shall be created under the Deputy Governor’s Office to strengthen and enhance our promise on government of inclusion.  Everyone must have a voice in my administration. “I shall run an open government of inclusion that will not leave anyone behind. No matter your age, sex, tribe or any other Status, as long as you reside in Lagos, we will make Lagos work for you. I want to assure all of us that I will make your taxes work for you. You will surely get a transparent and incorruptible government that will give you good value for your taxes paid. We shall embark on continuous reforms in the public service.  I am determined to demonstrate that the government belongs to the citizens.  You have put us here as servants to serve you and not you serving us. Today we are committed to that creed. Moving forward, the Civil Service will be strengthened and made to respond to the needs of all citizens in the same manner, quality services are rendered in the private sector,” he said.