 Less than half a decade or so ago, the name Mbuk Inyanya, was just like any other one in the crowd. But thanks to the annual music talent hunt called Project Fame, Iyanya emerged victorious in one of the editions and ever since he has become unstoppable. In sum, the Akwa Ibom State-born singer has become a household name, what with two successful albums that topped the charts and garnered awards for him. The ‘Kukere’ exponent whose smash hit ‘Your Waist’ still makes waves at all levels, recently did a collabo with Don Jazzy which many people considered to be equally a testimony of one destined to go places. However, as the saying goes, success sometimes blindfolds those who least expected it. The ‘thing’, like many say, has entered his head. He is said to be distancing some of the people that were once his close pals simply because he has grown bigger than them. But as if that is not the ‘Calabar Man’, as many prefer to call him, seems to have chewed more than he can swallow, His statement last weekend, in a national daily to wit: ”I have broken many hearts”, is not going down with many especially the female folks. Consequently, as the vexed issue which many people have described as arrant nonsense continues to trend, a lot of ladies are casting more aspersions against him and calling him nothing but a gold digger. ”We helped to make him what he is today by supporting him with our votes when he was in the Project Fame house. Now that he has made it, he is using us to play football and telling the world about it. One thing is certain: fame, in most cases, is transient. Nobody knows tomorrow,” some of them said. Iyanya who confessed that he can never marry a girl in the same arena with him, said about women in the interview. ”I try my best. You know, women are like movies, you just watch from the beginning till the end. They come with a lot of baggage so you have to make out your own woman; you have to find her and build her. And after that you have to cope with her and try to understand her so I am doing my best. I am not perfect I must confess. I have broken a couple of hearts, but I’m not really a bad guy.”