EMEKA AMAKOR, Abuja The President-elect, Muhammadu Buhari, has denied backing one of the aspirants to the Senate Presidency, saying he is willing to work with any leader of the Senate irrespective of what part of the country he or she originates from. In a statement in Abuja yesterday, Buhari described as false, insinuations that he was in support of any particular Senator’s emergence as Leader or that he belongs to any camp pushing for the emergence of a leader from a particular part of the country. “I am prepared to work with any leaders that the House or Senate selects. It doesn’t matter who the person is or where he or she is from,” the President-elect said in the statement by the Director, Media and Publicity, APC Presidential Campaign Council. He added that these insinuations were probably borne out of people’s expectations based on the way things had happened in the past, but reminded Nigerians that change had truly come. “There is due process for the selection of leaders of the National Assembly and I will not interfere with that process,” he said. Buhari added that the media and the public should begin to get used to no more “business as usual.” The President-elect added, “Nigeria has indeed entered a new dispensation. My administration does not intend to repeat the same mistakes made by previous governments.” Meanwhile, former British Prime Minister, Tony Blair has assured the President -elect, Gen. Muhammadu Buhari of the continued support of the international community towards addressing the challenges facing Nigeria. Blair told journalists after a closed door meeting the Buhari at the Defence House yesterday that with the successful conclusion of the general election, Nigeria has earned great respect in the comity of nations. He said the future of the Nigerian nation lies in the hands of the Nigerian people, pointing out that there is a tremendous support for Nigeria across the world. He assured that in whatever way they can, the international community will support and help Buhari to succeed. “In the last few weeks, Nigeria has earned respect throughout the whole world. There is enormous support for Nigeria now in the international community. The support takes into consideration the challenges that lie ahead and there is great confidence in the country. “This is an election which took place in a way that the country shows the majority of democracies the spirit and character of its people and in the President -elect and Vice President -elect, it is a leadership that I know is determined to do its best for the country. “Obviously, the future and destiny of Nigeria lies in the hand of its people. I just want to say to the President- elect that there is tremendous support for you and the country at this moment and all of us, in whatever way we can, will be ready to support you and help you. “It is a moment of great challenges which bothers on the life of the people as well as their security and so on. If the same spirit and character that define the elections can be taken through these coming years to address the challenges, I think we can all have great confidence in the times ahead. “Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to see you again here in Nigeria and wish you and your team the best in the times head.” While expressing appreciation to the British government for its support to Nigeria before, during and after the elections, Buhari said, “we had a meeting and discussed how Britain and the United States were helping us in making sure that we conducted ourselves according to our constitution. “The fact that it has been so successful is a major relief for us and to all people of conscience throughout the world.  I thank the former British Prime Minister for his concern for Nigeria and Nigerians, in what he is prepared to do by continuing to help us as a country and as a people.”