 Some farmers affected by the April 15 oil leak from Shell Petroleum Development Company, SPDC’s Kolo Creek oil fields in Otuasega, Bayelsa, have complained over alleged neglect by the company. They said in Otuasega on Sunday that the team on a Joint Investigation Visit, JIV, to the oil spill sites did not visit their farms affected by the oil spill. According to the farmers, they made efforts to draw the attention of the team to their farms but to no avail. Florence Ako, whose plantain farm is near the Kolo Creek manifold, said that the crude oil from the manifold spread into her farm and damaged the crops,. “The damage caused by the oil on our farmlands, is visible for all to see and this is happening so close to the harvest time,” she said. “It is on this farm that I and my husband depend, to feed and train our children in school; my husband’s farm on the other side was equally affected. “Unfortunately the JIV team did not come to this side and we came around to show them our farms but they did not listen to us. “They have abandoned the oil residues and there was no oil recovery and clean-up done here.” Corroborating his wife’s statement, OleiAko said his banana and plantain plantations were affected. He said that they had reported their plight to the Bayelsa Government and appealed that it prevailed on the oil company to clean up their farms. A fish farmer, BadigighaIgbodo, said the spill, which contaminated his fish pond and others belonging to his colleagues, wiped out all the fish. According to Mr.Igbodo, the spill had destroyed the means of livelihood of over 50 farmers in the area. Reacting to the complaints, Iniruo Wills, the Bayelsa Commissioner for Environment, said that the state government would verify the reported exclusion of some impacted sites. “We have to verify the information and if it is true that the impacted area was larger than what was originally captured, we shall find a way of addressing these concerns. “Nobody can hide under the cover of technicalities to say that an area that is really affected, will not be captured,” Mr. Wills said.