A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Buruji Kashamu, hass spoken of how he uncovered alleged plot by the United States (U.S.) to abduct and transfer him to the country for trial over his purported complicity in illicit drug deals. Kashamu, now a senator-elect, representing Ogun East, said a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (names withheld), who is “very close” to the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Mohammed Adoke (SAN), leaked the plot to his lawyer, Ajibola Oluyede, on a flight from Lagos to Abuja. He said this in a letter to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), in which he is seeking the commission’s intervention. Kashamu, in the letter, written for him by Oluyede, also alleged of plot to eliminate him by some political enemies. He also mentioned the name of the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Solomon Arase, in the alleged plot. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo had, in a December 2013 letter to President Goodluck Jonathan, alleged that Kashamu was wanted in the U.S. for his purported complicity in drug related offences. Kashamu, who denied the allegation, later initiated a N20 billion libel suit against Obasanjo before the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, over the allegation. The trial judge, Justice Valentine Ashi, on the basis of the suit, stopped Obasanjo from publishing and selling his book – “My Watch,” which Kashamu claimed contained similar allegations. The court lifted the restraining orders against Obasanjo on April 15, with the substantive case still pending. Part of the letter by Kashamu reads: “On a flight to the Federal Capital, Abuja from Lagos sometime in October 2014, a colleague and friend of our principal partner, R. A. Oluyede, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), who is also very close to the AGF, informed Mr. Oluyede of the tremendous pressure that Chief (Olusegun) Obasanjo was bringing upon the AGF for the extradition of Prince Kashamu and that, in one discussion between the AGF and Chief Obasanjo, witnessed by him (the SAN), Chief Obasanjo  had boasted that he was making arrangements with some U.S. officials in the region to have Prince Kashamu abducted and flown in a private plane to the U.S. “He advised that Mr. Oluyede tell Prince Kashamu, known widely to be his client, to be very careful. Prince Kashamu’s enquiry about this information revealed that indeed, there had been moves made by U.S. officials within the region, to secure the assistance of the head of the INTERPOL division in Nigeria, Mr. Solomon Arase, a Deputy Inspector General of Police, for the arrest  and delivery of Kashamu to the U.S. officials  for transportation to the U.S. without following the due process required by the Nigeria Extradition Act. “Mr. Kashamu’s informant revealed that Arase has confirmed that one Donna Chabot approached him in January 2015. The said Ms Chabot is an Attache, Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs Enforcement at the American Embassy route Des Almedies BP 49 Dakar Senegal and requested that INTERPOL Nigeria assist in the abduction of Kashamu for the purpose of his forcible transportation to the U.S. to face trial before Judge Norgel.” “The discussion between Mr. Arase and Ms Chabot revealed that it has become quite clear that the U.S. authorities have no hope of extraditing Prince Kashamu from any country in the world in view of the failure of the identification evidence available to them, which has been discredited and rejected by the English court. “Prince Kashamu has also revealed that on the 4th of April 2015 at about 2pm, he received a call from a Nigerian security officer, who he had agreed to keep anonymous in any proceedings. “The said security officer stated that he had called to warn Prince Kashamu that arrangements were almost completed for his abduction and forcible transportation to the U.S. by U.S. security officials in the sub-region under the supervision of the Head of the FBI, West Africa Office, stationed in the U.S. Embassy in Abuja, one Ahamdi Uche. “The entire operation is being coordinated from the Homeland Security office in Washington DC and they have links with security apparatus in Belgium, Republic of Benin, Senegal, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Conakry, England, Germany, all countries they believe that Prince Kashamu might visit and from where they want to be ready to abduct him. “The moving minds behind the operation are Stevan Bunnell, the General Counsel of the Department, acting on the instigation and with support of Chief Obasanjo. The two are the approving officers for the project of effecting Prince Kashamu’s abduction, using Ms Chabot of the Homeland Security office in the Dakar, Senegal U.S. Embassy  and Mr. Ahamdi Uche of the FBI, West African office in the U.S. Embassy in Abuja.