Entrepreneurial culture, which according to experts is growing rapidly amongst young Nigerians, foremost financial institution; Guaranty Trust Bank, will be having a series of Master Classes targeted at budding undergraduates to provide them with valuable knowledge, needed to enhance their commercial prospects. Economic experts unanimously agree that Africa is experiencing an entrepreneurial boom—where the young are taking the lead by using their talents and skills to solve socio-economic problems, while creating jobs and building reputable businesses. GTBank is keen to place this crop of individuals on the path to professional success by empowering them with vital business and management skills through its Master Class make-up & beauty sessions. The initiative is geared towards providing aspiring makeup artists with the professional knowledge required to guarantee the best possible start to their careers. The Lagos edition of the Master Class session was hosted by renowned make-up artist; Banke Meshida Lawal of BMPro while the Abuja edition will be hosted by Fatima Mamza of Mamza Beauty. Both sessions will be followed by a makeup photography class directed by the internationally acclaimed, Emmanuel Oyeleke. The GTCrea8 account is designed especially for undergraduates as part of the Bank’s value proposition to deliver banking in a different way to young people by engaging them with fun, exciting & interactive activities such as musical Campus Storms, scholarships and competitions that resonates with their unique demographics. The card-based, interest bearing account is structured to allow undergraduates maintain a banking relationship via electronic channels whilst offering other value added services. Through the GTCrea8 platform, a total of 72 undergraduates have benefited from the Bank’s annual scholarship scheme with 18 more scholarships to be awarded by December 2015. In addition to its scholarship program, the Bank annually rewards its loyal customers with the chance to win a brand new Mini Cooper car. This year’s winner will become the third recipient of a brand new Mini Cooper. GTBank has consistently played a leading role in Africa’s banking industry. The GTBank brand is regarded by industry watchers as one of the best run financial institutions across its subsidiary countries and serves as a role model within the financial service industry due to its bias for world class corporate governance standards, excellent service quality and innovation. 